Animal Origins
Amateur Philosophy

We compare ourselves to animals and often forget that we are animals ourselves. Humanity has came a long way though it wasn't always the case for forever that we were oh so modern and fascinating

The motivation behind animal behavior, attributes, and skill is for survival. Dolphins use echolocation, gazelles have fast legs, camels can go for a while without water. While lions are apex carnivores and salmon spend their lifetime traversing leagues while trying to return to their spawn point alive, humans behave as both predator and prey. Extroverts and introverts. Outgoing, shy. Meat addicts, salad lovers. Dominant, submissive. From the admiration of heavy metal to slow symphonies, to the pacifier and the pacifist, it seems that people take on many forms. Animals usually take on one or two types, but humans as a whole take on all of them, varying specifically per individual

To make their ends meet, animals engage in combat or forage for food, migrate or make natural habitat as well as hibernate, and often participate in some level of teamwork. Sure, relative to ourselves they aren't as intelligent but they are uniquely talented in their own ways. These creatures can zero in on their game, escape with alacrity, fly across the world during the winters, build honeycombs and mole holes all while bonding with their companions, depending on the sort. Animals can through socialization if desired, maintain themselves while maximizing their resources or at least their availability to it to also preserve life itself. I'm sure like the dog who likes to jump through the water sprinkler and chase balls they enjoy a side of entertainment if they can

People don't seem all too different from these notions either. Using technology, diplomacy, and economy, we too socialize for material gains. Meritocracy generally resembles survival of the fittest. We enjoy the arts including the show biz, and to consider Mazlow's Hierarchy of Needs we like shit like love, whatever the fuck that is

For all the ways we kind of are "the shit," there isn't much that separates us from animals other than our sophistication. Animals in general demonstrate spectacular feats of talent themselves, though beyond opposable thumbs where we excel is our intellect that exercises sophistication. The people who we call family are the same people who founded nations and they too are the same people who made the Leaning Tower of Pisa and the Pyramids. Genetically speaking we are more or less the same since then, maybe we grew an inch or two with Industrialization. We just happen to be sophisticated animals of a sort and became more capable with our sophistication as eras progressed though it wasn't always a given that we were always sophisticated to begin with (or at least, available to all the resources we accumulated)

There is a question along the lines of "Are people inherently good?" and my answer to this question is "No, not exactly." Humans are animalistic by nature. While people can be good and most of us are good for the most part, "good" and "bad" are sophisticated ideas and values and people are not strictly defined to be sophisticated as that trait is an add-on that we developed. Human nature - an abstract concept if we are to describe it - is by definition identical in the Post-Modern Era as in the Ancient Era. It is inaccurate to describe "human nature" being different in those two times. We as people are animalistic inherently by nature and though our sophistication is a trait that is virtually present, we are first and foremost, animals to begin with

Naturally we take things for granted on occasion, if its any indication of our moral incompetence. The head coach or quarterback is taken for granted, we take people close to us for granted, people take us for granted. I'm not saying that everyone has a pissy ungrateful attitude but all of us can be a stuck up piece of shit and more often than we wish to. When told of such things and recognizing of our moral shortcomings perhaps we establish to work with our better angels. Perhaps. All things considered, we were far from ideal as a default

"Why is so and so such an asshat?" While it will be forever frustrating that some people are a bag of dicks bouncing off the walls, the savage nature of ourselves will be present with us. Sophistication, and morals included, are acquired traits. Individual complexity and cultural variety notwithstanding, our primal instincts will pervade behavior and at times, prevail sophistication
