Because ... As If
Amateur Philosophy

I can get tried of any of my favorite foods if I eat it too often for too long

There is an idea to do something "As if your life depends on it." And sure, when you see an Olympic athlete or a sort of such caliber you would imagine that for all put in to be able to show up on one of the best stages of a sort that their performance is pushed to limits "as if their life depended on it." And is it? Of course not; I'm sure along the lines of not being some kind of gladiator stuck in the colosseum in Rome then you get to live another day even if you don't win a match. But the mindset of acting "as if" their life depends on it brings out 100% of every possible muscle of talent within a person. Sure, virtually all of us aren't athletes who have a chance in breaking a world record in the triple jump or the sort, but you would imagine someone who is close to getting a medal wouldn't go around giving 90% of their best. Or even 95. Maybe… 99. For sake of argument

It is an "easy" motivator that is "easy" to say and it has its merits, but the mindset is ideal some of the time and not all the time. Because if you come around being the kind of person who has OCD and organizes their sock drawer in some special order "as if" your life depends on it, that might be somewhat excessive. And even off the field as an athlete or outside having a career, if in your leisure all time left is spent on whatever you made yourself out to be then life can be a little dull

And maybe sometimes in a few cases it is not actually correct to state that something is "as if your life depended on it," such as diet. A good diet you have because your life literally depends on it, not as if your life depended on it. Or making sure you take care when you go skydiving or the sort. In such cases, you don't do things "as if" but more like "because" so. If you talk about jumping off a plane with or without a parachute "as if your life depends on it,” then you better have friends trying to pull of a stunt of chasing you in free-fall and saving your ass in the process

In the forming of ideas and phrasing them linguistically, the idea itself is the basis of thought but the perspective of something that you do find intriguing is what you take away from when you apply it to your everyday life. There are self-help coaches who talk about "not caring about what others think about you" and maybe at times I have done it well, but in a sense you should at times act as if  "you don't care about what others think about you" and not because you genuinely don't care of what people think of you. And if you do genuinely not care about what some individuals think about you, then maybe it is all for the better but not because people are the worst thing to ever happen to planet earth. Or even when I chat with my parents, I tell them that they are the number one mom and dad in the world, and I do it because to me, they are as if they are the best parents in the world and not because I went out and proved that they deserve to be treated that way because they are better than all the other parents out there

It is a tricky concept because there really isn't going to be a surefire way in being able to sort all the cases and instances of an idea. And maybe as I think about it more I may come up with a guideline about what should be deemed "as if" and what should be regarded as factual causation. And maybe "just because" it is factually true that I don't get along with my sisters at times, I could just live "as if" they're cool people and just sit with that. And for having to deal with customers or coworkers in… pretty much literally all the jobs I had or will get, maybe it is better off just acting "as if" I thought a certain way even if I wasn’t genuinely feeling it

I do need a haircut? Do I need to dress nice? Who cares what car I drive? It is "as if" those things matter… or because they matter? The concept of throwing an "as if" can be an easy way to allow some idea you don't completely like because you can just think about it in a sarcastic manner (as if it really matters if my socks are matching or not) and be able to fulfill the benefits of doing it anyway. So in a way, being able to care when you don't care enough and care less if you care too much. As if I’m making any sense right now

Because not everything that is true is useful all in the same ways, I do see the notion of how five blind men came across an elephant and all thought the elephant were completely different things depending on which part of the animal they grabbed. The trunk, the leg, the body, the horn, and the tail. And maybe to make this a little more of a modern story, lets just say that the five blind men all of a sudden got their sight back and all five of them finally agreed that the elephant is Loxodonta of the Proboscidea order within the animal kingdom, but then they'll probably be "eh cool story nice to know what gives." Because in real life, maybe I did tell more people than I should: "hey so by the way, you're not that great" and maybe finding that out and stating it and letting them know didn't do me any more good than finding out what an elephant actually is and telling the elephant that

The world is full of undesirable truths and some of the sad truths of life will not go away. And for being able to find the truth and prove things to be right or wrong, I'm sure that getting closer to the truth is one thing that seems noble to do, but there are people such as everyone who want to get away from a truth of a sort. Because it probably is a lot better just treating it "as if". Sometimes. Like with cooking I'm sure you can burn any dish if you put the heat on for too hot and too long but still be able to showcase fine cuisine if all the right flavors and timing went in it

There are things to take away from different schools of thought, because while there might be one you like more than another it’s not as if you eat ribs and lobster everyday for dinner because it is the best meal in the world. Because burgers might not be the best but you still enjoy having fast food once in a while even if your life literally depends on your diet. But beyond being completely right or as close to the truth as much as possible or liking what is the best out there, a quality value to have is flexibility. Within relationships you will get along with people more the more flexible you are, with work schedules and performance you will be happier the more flexible your boss is with you, and with even ideas and beliefs you can gain more insight and awareness the more flexible you are with your mindset, because it is more about being flexible with the way you view the world and treat others that benefits you and others. Though with a grain of salt since being firm, you know, the linguistically opposite word for flexible, is another good trait to have at times

Because as if I ever really figured this all out 

———————————————————

With my blog in general, these articles are suggestions. With a suggestion, I would like to offer an idea and ask the reader if there is something they like about them. Honestly, there are some articles of mine that are a little underwhelming, while others do get me in my feels every time I read then. Maybe you can add on to my ideas; maybe you can take parts of my ideas and ignore some others. I think it’s nice to be open to suggestions. I can be a picky person when it comes to music or food, but when it comes to life advice, the “best advice” isn’t going to be handed to you all the time. I personally dealt with people who are too picky and people who weren’t challenging me hard enough, whether they liked me or not. In hopes of being a better person, the advice that indeed works for me may not be the advice that works for you at all times. Again, maybe some advice won’t work out for me today but it might tomorrow

With life perspective it helps to be open to suggestions to take away from them. Part of being open-minded is the willingness to change or grow (or? like growth is good and “change” has a guilty connotation… if you would like to know about the kinds of people I deal with time to time…). Being open-minded helps you not be self-absorbed and be more likeable. Being willing to share suggestions can be a sign of confidence, because if you’re afraid of giving one in anticipation of the reactions people might give, that’s not a pleasant place to be
