Clean Ovens
Amateur Philosophy

You don't have to clean the oven though choosing to do so can be a reflection of how you might be carrying out your life. Well … it might

I have different modes of action that I put on at different times. I have a work mode, when I have my glasses on and a book open with a pen in my hand. I have a workout mode, when I have my headphones on while counting one by one each action that I do or check on the time of how long I was doing it. I have a sports fan mode that gives a shit about which team wins and make the best plays. I have a flirting mode, when I act cheesy and try to act smooth. I have a snarky mode and a funny mode and admittedly a drunk mode though at times I have a reflection mode, which is something I put on when I write

Using modes is a productive way to get things done, an enjoyable way to find pleasure within a life that can revolve around professionalism, a healthy way to deal with stress that comes with life's blessings and responsibilities, and an open minded way to view the things that tie them all together. Someone who is shallow may consider people to be two-faced but it is an unrealistic way to consider people to have truly only one single mode of personality throughout all the things they ever do all around the clock year in and year out. It was a topic of a previous article of mine that there is no such thing as "the average Joe" as even persons such as ourselves have different modes of personality we bring forth at different times so it is a boggling question to ascribe the "average Joe" with not just a lifestyle but particular modes as well

This is coming from me as my opinion though well … if you are a minister who has a "slinging cocaine mode" on particular Thursdays, most people who care might have something to say about that but if you asked me, I'd smirk. There are other like scenarios in which people as myself wouldn't recommend multiple modes within a person, such as if a football coach placed money to have their own team lose and rigged the game so that the team they lead would lose. Even if I didn't care about the game too much as it was the game of cricket in which I never seen a game of, I would find that dickish. So provided that you don't act like such, utilizing modes is an effective way in being a wholesome person

We can throw in "Annoying Devil's Advocate" who may say: well you are a hypocrite because you act one way in one instance and act a different way in another. Given what I did talk about so far we could respond that modes are not a change of identity as our identity is made up of multiple fields of life and we are focusing on one field at a time, each taking turns. It doesn't make me a hypocrite to work hard for a few hours or days or weeks and relax hedonistically for a while after that. Does it make you a hypocrite to be working to be a doctor while also smoking cigs with your medical buddies? I wouldn't think so (and it is more common than you think, in case you were unaware. I did have an uncle who was a successful doctor though he did drink a bit but that’s a topic for another day). I condone doctors doing drugs and while I would say "why would you care, mind your own business" if you were concerned about it, I do see how it seems hypocritical to undermine your own ideology by supporting the opposite of that. We can (and should) agree that it is nowhere close as bad as a corrupt head coach who profits off his own loss, though yeah sure it isn't consistent

We might utilize static argumentative logic to say that it is "immoral" to be inconsistent. There are merits to this claim though with truth claims in general it has merit depending on how you use it (this alone can’t be stressed enough). To address the different opinions of drug dealing pastors and doctors who bought drugs from drug dealing pastors and the corrupt coach who is disliked the most, inconsistency came from differing "values". The reason why the corrupt coach is the worst is because they say they will help the team win while doing the exact opposite, while the doctor who smokes cigs during breaks isn't also telling patients that cigarettes are good for your health. The reason why this is okay is because they don't contradict themselves in a way that was adverse to actual patients, which is their job. Thinking about this, while correct to say is medically ironic, was thought about by the "Annoying Devil" as they may not (publicly) accept the concept of modes or have any or was critical to get a power trip out of it. Maybe if the Devil was nice they would care because people shouldn't benefit from having a value they don't actually have, somewhat reasonably out of envy or fairness

Using values as an argument opens up a can of worms. Yes, people should do the moral thing to do when they can do that, though let's put it this way: if you were an intern working your way up and you put in the extra hours and delivered the results and some other coworker also got promoted with you and all they did was bring a latte every day, then you would be pissed as they put in less work than you did and got the same results. Morals are good things to have as if we did not have them we would be amok in chaos, though when we look for morals then we bump into one of life's problem: the value of fairness. It seems morally abject to kinda be a moral person and benefit from it and not even have those morals while there are people who are nicer who didn't benefit as much from them, and this is why we might have the tendency to go beyond "minding our own business" as the business of others becomes our business because morals were involved. What makes us shallow is the hypothetical situation in which boss themself came up to you and asked you: "Well then, I'll give you a decision: have me demote them or have you prompted, in which you don't have the right to care anymore after either or those events," calling you to also be a person without values in any case, either being a "psychopath" who was happy someone got demoted or "shallow flip floppy to Kate" when you were nice to her all over again after you gossiped behind her back the week before, while Kate herself has no clue what was going on or had a part in it at all 

This is a hypothetical and Kate could have actually been productive without you knowing or she may indeed have unfairly gotten some favoritism, but the takeaway is that arguing about moral is more difficult when you are the one having to make the decision. Your feelings may be valid. Your moral opinions may be based on a genuine intent on being a good person. However, when you are given the responsibility to make a complete decision (in this hypothetical case at the least), you may critique yourself less of carrying the burden of responsibility than if someone else made a similar decision

This then becomes even more of a mess if we talk about rejecting modes as it also seems unfair for a person to live life in an unrealistic way, if it doesn't kill them with boredom or drive them crazy by not balancing things out. One time I had a roommate (nice guy, he has a daughter like it matters) who told me when I was kinda ranting about some life drama: "Dude, smoke some weed, chill out. Just relax.” Everyone has stress. It is inhumane in a way to deny people's nature in being able to be stressed out at the end of the day or have ambition and take on modes to address situations. In the TV show House, Greg takes a bunch of pills and uses a cane so while being mentally and physically imperfect, he is overall an amazing doctor who does his job: help patients and heal them to be better. This is to show that not everyone will have the same values as you do. Greg in a fictional sense became successful while he might be a hypocrite as he has his own problems, but he deserves his credibility amidst his own life problems in which he is a patient himself. That’s fine. His values are comprised of certain goals and your values are comprised of some other goals. People measure themselves with their own ruler. They pick a ruler or yardstick of a sort that they like and measure themselves with it and measure others with it as well. The first part is good in a personal sense as you should be proud of yourself in what you look for in life and what meaning you find from it, but sometimes can make you an asshole when you have a ruler of measurement that you use on yourself that you do like and tell other people to use the same one. It is not a contradiction of consistency to use your own ruler or letting others have their own ruler that isn't the same as yours as the value that was kept is that people should more or less have the option in having their own ruler. It will always be tricky to construct values that involve other people. I'm sure at this point in the article Kate thinks you suck

Modes are not contradictions. They are combination of time management, focus, goals, and compartmentalization. Though beyond exhibiting our pursuit of different objectives at different times might exist values within ourselves that we should be more concerned about. With a work mode we may put more focus on productivity than other modes, though…

The question to ask yourself is "how clean is your oven?" We may be the most detail orientated people when we are in work mode, but when we aren't in work mode and continue being “just kinda productive”, we may see a dirty oven and choose to clean it or not. That may be the closest thing that resembles a value, which isn't even a great one. A value is exhibited whether you are in a particular mode or not. When you aren't really "working" but "cooking" and see some grease splattered on the inside, do you clean it or not? If someone told you to write the neatest report professionally, yes that is a talent of skill but someone who is naturally tidy would keep a clean oven. You don't have to all the time since an oven can take a beating and still work fine and having a dirty oven probably to definitely doesn't affect the quality of food produced by it, though choosing to clean it is a reflection of your own character. I don't actually really think it matters whether or not the oven is squeaky clean regarding the kitchen itself. Everyone has a messy garage or a wreck of a room and some of these people might be running your own favorite TV show while you are watching it and coming up with a response. Yeah, it's not really that great to have a messy oven and it's not that big of a deal if you take care of it only once in a while, but you reap the benefits of your own reward when you want to go into any mode off-guard on the spot as you are a natural at what you do
