Doctors and Lawyers
Amateur Philosophy

There is a commonality between doctors and lawyers being that both professions are required by law to protect your confidentiality. Whatever you tell them is pretty much between you and them

For hopefully obvious reasons, there is a critical reason why this is necessary. If you hear of a lawyer who rattled off the personal details of one of their clients, then no one would ever want that lawyer to be their lawyer. In a practical sense, they would fail to practice law again. Same with your doctors. In fact, one time a group of doctors who did not have authorization of Britney Spears' medical records looked at hers and they were all fired. Or so I heard. Lawyer / Client Privilege and Doctor / Patient Confidentiality are taken extremely seriously by de jure [1]

This is not a feature of the best lawyers and doctors. This is a mere expectation of every single lawyer and doctor

The way you treat people is an indication of the extent you might treat another. This might be the foundation of privacy in a legal and medical sense, but it rings true for non JDs and MDs as well. The difference is that the boundaries of morals are harder to set and not easy to detect in others 

There is a saying, "Judge a man's character by the way he treats those he has no use for". I have also heard another one saying, "When you are on a date with a man, don't pay too much attention in how he treats you but how he treats the server". The rationale behind these pieces of advice is that if someone is nice to you only to get something out of you, they aren't genuinely nice, but rather emotionally manipulative. Or just a kind of an asshole. In any case…

There are eight types of love. This article isn't going to talk about all of them, but it is said that they are:

Agape,

Eros,

Philia,

Philautia,

Storage,

Pragma,

Ludus, and 

Mania

Agape is known as universal love, or the love for all people. There are Greek and Christian comparisons of deities loving all their people and all of humankind, but those of us who also demonstrate love for all people exhibit agape. Such people love everyone and treats all individuals to a high regard

The opposite of this is sociopathy (anti-social personality disorder) and narcissism. In a clinical sense there are a lot of factors that point to a diagnosis, but in summary sociopaths lack empathy and base their behavior, which can be charming, to get the most out of people for their personal gain. Narcissists do have similar characteristics (although Narcissistic Personality Disorder was removed from the DSM-5)

No one is an angel nor a demon and we all fall in a spectrum between being loving towards everyone or loving to no one but ourselves. While it sounds good on paper that everyone should have agape, we do need to look out for ourselves. Unfortunately, sometimes in life there is a trade-off and a decision that needs to be made when we have to pick one of the two. Or we might have to pick both

A military general might love all of their troops and love each and every single member, but it takes a level of being unattached to their lives to be able to command armies into danger for the security of their country. It is not necessarily an either / or, but a combination of the two that is required when we take leadership. Whatever it means to be "good" or "loving" falls in a gray area

But of course we know of obvious behaviors that fall in the darker side. Cheating in a relationship, conning performance in a professional field, stealing, and lying are some selfish behaviors that benefit an individual at the cost of another. But again with generals and war, there isn't a clear guideline to when those things are not as evil as they sound. Hammurabi's Code is no longer a part of life, reason being that good and bad are not absolutes but degrees of morality 

We long for ideals. When it comes to doctors and lawyers we made the ideal of privacy a codified requirement. How nice would it be if we all acted like doctors and lawyers? Or… how unfortunate would that be?

We do draw the line somewhere. We despise hypocrites: a leader of religion who fails to uphold the morals they preach is despicable; a politician who takes money from the oligarchy while assuring their constituents that their priorities are prime is unsettling 

Do realize that not all seemingly good deeds are done out of goodwill. Your server and bartender has to be nice to you. Often I tell people "Don't call me sir", for the reason that "I'm younger than you", "I'm wearing a tank top", or "You don't have to be super polite to me". There is an understanding: better customer service results in better performance and job security

I mean… to a degree. One of the best bosses I had would tell customers to get lost if they were rude to him. He valued integrity and would simply let customers who did not have that know that he did not want their business again in the future. He did not do this often but he did do this. I respect him highly

It sounds so easy to think about on paper. But when we face those decisions face to face, it is tempting. You know, for me personally, I was a guy that girls would cheat on to a guy that girls would cheated for. So... what? I suddenly get to think cheating is tolerable since I am now on the winning side of it? Do I get to pick and choose when morals should apply and when they shouldn't just so I can maximize my utility?

So we like it when our doctors and lawyers respect our worth as a human being and enjoy it (?) when our servers and bartenders treat us with kindness, but at the end of the day, they are paid to do it. So what happens when we deal with people who aren't of the aforementioned? Do we get to gossip about people as long as they are not our clients? What do we reasonably expect from people who aren't paid to be nice to us? And what happens when people who are paid to be nice to you really do mean it? What happens when the stripper you paid to give you a couple of lap dances gives you a third one for free? What happens when a bartender tells you that she loves you?

We all have Jobs. Duties. Regulations. But behind the expectations that are asked of us, we are all humans with emotions, needs, and desires. So what are we able and obliged to do, since at the end of the day, most of us aren't lawyers and doctors? And worse, if you are one? 

I don't know 

A while ago in the late 20th century, people spotted UFOs. Some even had pictures of them. Aliens exist! No your pictures are fake! So what was the actual truth behind the spotting of UFOs?

Turns out it was America's B-2 Stealth Bomber. They made a triangular shaped plane that was dark and able to avoid radar detection. When it was first made the existence of the project was confidential. It was kept a secret from pretty much everyone outside those who had clearance to know so

So when some people saw this plane shaped like no other plane that had ever been made before, they started to draw conclusions. Now that its existence is declassified, everyone is right and wrong. Yes, your pictures aren't fake, but no it wasn't an alien

I tell myself this often: "What do you want and what is the motivation behind the things you do?"

We aren't machines. We are animals. As much as I can sit down with you and talk about the intellectual nuances of this and that, go follow your instincts. If you want something then go get it, but be sure you have a clear understanding of knowing what you want

When you play poker you can't win if you don't play, but if you play you might lose. Life is a gamble: if you sit and do nothing, you will be chipped away with antes and that's no good. Have good instincts, I guess, and just go with them 

Moral guidelines are that: lines that guide you. But you walk the path yourself. Doctors and lawyers aren't perfect people either, even if they have been one of the most valued friends to me

Or so I think

 

Fuck… whatever

 ———————————————————

[1] I don't know if this is by law or a given rule that all institutions and bar associations practice. By de facto people do whatever they wish to do inasmuch nothing comes from it
