Extra Credit
Life Improvement

Life isn't a contest or a race. You do well in life by practicing and exhibiting a winning mentality, not just in winning in and of itself

For the religious there is a saying that goes "What would Jesus do?" It's meant to be a motivating question that hopefully gets the listener to think about and do what Jesus would do in their shoes, especially since Jesus is the nicest guy to have ever lived. Literally or symbolically, whatever floats your boat. Though we are all variable with our religious beliefs, it's not a bad saying. I'm sure someone out there is rolling their eyes and sure, we all throw it out the window since what Jesus wants is probably a whole lot different from what we want. It's understandable if he isn't your role model

Think of someone who is a boss of a sort. A Grammy winner, an Olympic medalist, one of your favorite CEOs or a politician perhaps. Imagine some random stranger running into them (or even someone they know) and telling them "Fuck you, you suck," and your role model got distraught and broke down or got real heated in return. We would find it odd if some hotshot of a character got hung up about it and lost their cool so yes with these World Class figures with high status we do hold them to a high standard as we expect that they are too cool to be bothered in these ways, too important to care, too happy to be brought down. People who are World Class don't get bothered by insults, taunts, and disrespect, considering they are generally reputable enough to not be bogged down by such things. They partly do maintain their status or reputation with classy personalities though if concerned would deal with the matter that would awe the general public, as you would expect from someone who was a boss of a sort

With that in mind, "What would a World Class role model do?" You can replace Jesus with whoever you know well and look up to. Naturally we are bothered when trouble rolls around, if we lose friends, goals don't pan out, or upsets in success inflict on our gains but someone who was World Class wouldn't act in a way a typical person might justifiably react to things. Someone who is World Class exhibits camaraderie, confidence, and comfort in overall satisfaction. People who are World Class don't complain. People who are World class don't mull about failure. People who are World Class aren't petty. People who are World Class are ahead of the game

People who are doing well in life are regarded by others by having a winning mentality. This is good for you to have which also benefits others and thus you again consequently. A winning mentality contributes to success and success can help build a winning mentality, so it is a upward moving cycle that does you good. You may not strictly have a pure winning mentality, but acting the part itself will translate to external and internal change if you wish to try it out. Yes of course, practical gains can help you feel like a winner though there are people who have a lot of nice things that people all want and not consider themselves all that much of a winner or be seen as one. Not everyone who is seemingly extravagant is a winner, but every true winner has a winning mentality. And to address World Class figures themselves, some of them like the all of us probably do have a lot of stress and doubt in themselves too, and maybe we find out in a tabloid of the troubles that they used to go through or are going through, which humble us in knowing that World Class figures can equally have the problems that we are struggling with. They are however, still winners to us with heavy obligations and stress because at the end of the day they still committed on demonstrating a winning mentality. Having a winning mentality to them is a choice. So yeah, it isn't just a walk in the park for them either to have a winning mentality all the time and I personally know a handful of ordinary people who were the most humble well packaged individuals with awe inspiring nature. We all know what it looks like and while it is hypothetically easier when things are all working out for the better, a winning mentality is a personal choice to the all of us at the end of the day. While we do have the right to be mentally operating as people normally do, having a winning mentality is a decision that everyone does have the option to take on, not that I claim is easy in any sort but hopefully we ascertain what kind of mentality we aspire to have and admire in others

Anyone who has a winning mentality did the extra credit and went the extra mile and gave or put in more than required to or expected of and are respected for it
