Fake Love
Amateur Philosophy

Loving more or loving harder does not mean that your love is better

I would consider Parks and Recreation a show that I enjoyed watching quite a bit, along with BoJack Horseman. I do often refer to some shows with the assumption that you the reader may have seen it, though if you haven't, I would highly recommend so. April is a cool person and so is Ron. Both characters have relationships that I would take seriously, especially since their stubbornness and cold-bloodedness is their overall character. Chris (Rob Lowe) is particularly annoying to me. I don't have much against the literal actor himself though Chris' overall optimism is off putting to me (another topic). I wouldn't particularly advocate against kindness but he is…  too nice. This also goes with Mr. Peanutbutter in BoJack as he too has that Chris-like persona of overoptimism. I don't like the persona and the viewer may agree. If we sat down and thought why, I would say because on their end, their persistent optimism seems fake. Even with the relationships they did have, their optimism was off putting to both Ann and Diane as being happy amidst life friction gave the feeling that the other guy simply couldn't relate or react properly to life's circumstances. Being too kind along the lines of an ultra-positive mentality demonstrated a level of disconnect. While both men continue their lives regardless and generally do alright, it shows a bit of lack of being able to relate to normal people who either couldn't or wouldn't sugarcoat whenever possible

Kindness is a facet to a wholesome character though it is not the definition of a good character. April and Ron are blunt people who can come across as anti-social, and they might be somewhat, but because of this when they do in fact express their admiration or like for something, it means a lot. Someone who is cold has to like something a great deal to break their cold shell that seemingly can't be broken. And perhaps this is also why Diane and Ann have a hard time feeling appreciated: being treated kindly by someone who is always nice didn't make them feel too special. But specifically I would say that Diane and Ann learned that Chris and Peanutbutter weren't relating, but even more so, not listening to perhaps even not caring. This may be a reason why people like assholes because the care that an asshole gives out feels more genuine than someone who does that all the time

In real life, I would say that people who are often kind probably do get along with people plenty. I was watching Jerry Springer the other day and he ended with his final thought which went along the lines of "Love shouldn't feel like work. If loving someone feels exhausting or strenuous, then there isn't much real love and one should re-evaluate the nature of the relationship". That's pretty deep. Working to maintain a relationship that has love doesn't feel like work, as much effort it may require. Though while it doesn't feel like work, it still is, work indeed. In the past my classmates and I would be critical of teachers who copied the textbook word for word on the whiteboard or recited some text, and while there is validity in questioning the credibility of the teacher (who would rely on cheat-sheets in the form of a book), what also puts students off is the lack of effort in trying. The feeling of being cared for also comes from the perceived level of effort one puts into caring. Casanova is known as one of the world’s best romantics and the fundamental reason why he was really good with women was because the girls he went after felt valued. A lot. Not that I read too much about him, but for a few he would risk his life to pursue a woman. Caring for people takes a bit of meaningful effort, but beyond the easy ways to do so, meaningful effort also can call for sacrifice, be it ego, time, money, or friends

If making friends is easy, then keeping them is harder. If making friends was hard, keeping them is easier

There is a similar idea in reading The Prince by Niccolò Machiavelli where he refers in history of the change of power within governments (then pre-democratic). Not that the book can be summarized in a few paragraphs, but one idea that I'm reading from this work is that the easier a Prince got to the height of power, the less power that Prince actually has (mostly because the more you used other people’s help in the rise to power, the more power they do have in controlling you as well as overthrow you from the throne if things don’t go their way). This was written during a time when the Catholic Church was instrumental in the affairs of Italian and French governments, so there's that

Romanticism aside, the strength of a relationship is not merely based on amiability. The strength of a relationship is based on the desire of the other person's presence. People reasonably think that the two go hand in hand, but this isn't always the case. One flaw with understanding kindness is not knowing that kindness is a gift. A gift is something that you give to someone and expecting nothing in return. Giving kindness and expecting something in return is at the core of things, not to be that kind. While there is a good correlation between kindness and desire, being fixated that the two must be perfectly in sync with each other is disgenuine. Not only is that controlling in taking away other people's expression of free will and wishes, but dismissive of how seriously people regard other's sense of choice and space. I do understand that people as myself feel unappreciated when people don't reciprocate goodwill in turn, but a truly compassionate person doesn't demand of their friends to act a certain way

Before I bore myself to death talking about how friends can be cool, there is a saying that goes: "There is more honor among thieves than in friends". Friends come and go and people change their opinions. Respect is indeed based on more than noble kindness. A criminal knows better than to be screwing around with another criminal, so while they are probably not the admiration of all things noble they do have a few things going their way. Practically speaking, don't be a criminal; metaphorically speaking, don't exactly be like Chris and Mr. Peanutbutter. Be a nice person for the sake of humanity, though a generally nice person without a touch of evil can miss out on some other things, mostly the ability to make meaningful ties with other people

Within relationships, it’s about being the right fit than being perfect
