Final Resolution
Amateur Philosophy

The video game series Final Fantasy was named as such as the creators planned on the game to be the last one they made if it did not become a big hit

The word "final" has two different meanings, one of them being along the lines of "set in stone" and the other being "the last in conclusion". To throw a couple of examples in the order I brought them up: The boss of a small company made the final decision to be acquired by larger corporation for a large sum and The athlete was nervous as she was about to play her final game of her career

In college I came across the interesting realization (to which I was probably not that much of an exception to) that as much as pupils have free seating, they tend to not change their seats after the first week of class. Throughout entire terms, virtually all students sit in the same seat, day in and day out. I personally hopped around a little bit in a few classes, depending on which class it was. You would think that in the old days in primary education kids would be wanting the freedom to sit wherever they want to, but once you give them that they might show less variation on their own accord. Sure you got some buddies y'all stick with as even one time I sat in the back one day and my friend was looking like "what you doing in the back" and we shifted to the back kinda because. Different story

You would think people can't change or don't change because they do the same thing over and over again while having the existential capability to make the decision to be or act different, but even in a small petty sense, people don't seem to change. No one made a final decision about this kind of stuff. Maybe you want to keep sitting around some girl or boy you're knacking on so that’s why you don't change but it's not like… nevermind

People are not that great at making "final" decisions. When you're at the end of the line of some development of a sort then yes, you would kind of have to make a "final" decision. Perhaps if it came to life decisions we don't feel the need to make decisions that are more or less ultimate unless we had to, as we make new year's resolutions every year at the start of the year and be thinking that we made a "final" decision just so that we can again undo that decision another 14 days later. I'm going to do this and I'm going to do that and this year it's going to be different and this is final. Final my ass. Sure I made some less than ideal decisions throughout my life but even some of the genuinely good ones got side tracked. New year's resolutions, as ideal and life changing it seems on paper, has a weak reputation to it to the point that it's faith in it is maybe a little better than the existence of Santa Claus

But why? And perhaps that question itself is the answer to our own failed hopes. But why? Why do I need to exercise more and why do I need to read another book and why do I need to learn another language and why do I need to be more conscientious of how I use my money and why do I need to set different goals of people and why do I need to think about the feelings of someone I might meet years down the line when I got other stuff to do and I can do those things tomorrow?

Not that people can't or don't make final resolutions. They don't come often. Professional decisions aside, most people such as ourselves don't have the easiest time in wanting change to happen and seeing it through even if we did want it. There is a relation that is beyond the dictionary of how making "ultimate conclusions" have a predilection in happening when you're at the "end of the line". Not that people only change if they have to change since a good wake up call or a role model of inspiration can move people's mentality as well. But even with a wake up call or a model of inspiration is the idea that Final Resolves are the stronger decisions one makes for themselves but only comes from a deep desire and commitment to change. Since how much harder does it seem to change as a person with a new year's resolution when we can't really even change which seat we sit in class

I can get lost if this means if people are stubborn or flexible. I did enjoy these days quite a bit. Since how much do we like it when we get to celebrate a holiday and give each other and ourselves cheer and happiness. I did enjoy living it and seeing it and giving it. To think if the holidays are some kind of excuse to be happy for good reason. We all want to be happy and share happiness and maybe it's a shame that we are so good at it when we have an excuse to be jubilant. Because any other day of the year we might not have an excuse to celebrate an annual event. Because if we don't have an excuse to switch seats then maybe we won't have an excuse to celebrate either. Then watch the television to see if our team is going to win the championships or not, looking for another reason to celebrate

Navigating the decision making process won't be simple and carrying out the ones made was never easy. While "final" seems to be the kind of word that suggests an end to a notion, every end is another beginning. And if it wasn't for that, little ever came out of nothing

People can change, not that they won't change and of course change isn't easy, but in everyone's deepest core we are more welcome to it than we give credit to ourselves for. Though one thing I came to realize is that it is foolish to expect other people to change if you aren't willing to change too or even change first

Happy New Year and I hope y'all have been enjoying your time here!

