Fuck It
Life Improvement

Most of the time there is a reason why or we're looking for a motivator and a real good one is "Because Fuck It"

There can be a spark that causes a series of events to unfold and "Fuck It" is a good one. You're idle while double guessing yourself but "Fuck It," I'm gonna say what's on my mind, start a conversation with someone or about something. Fuck It, I'm gonna go out. Fuck It, I'm gonna get lit, Fuck It, Ima force myself out of bed or hit the hay. Fuck It, I'm gonna hit the gym. Fuck It, Ima get rid of the shit I don't need. Fuck It, Ima dye my hair or cut it. Fuck It, Ima part ways or Fuck It, Ima start a fight. Fuck It, I'll be nice even if I don't want to. Fuck It, Ima try something out. Fuck It, Ima take a break. Fuck It, Ima go down my bucket list

Fuck It is a great motivator because it is meaningful, raw, and powerful and only uses two words. You could be moved by a well written speech and be reasoning with yourself and with others for notions A to Z, but if your boss wants you to show initiative or some chick walks in the room, you don't have all the time in the world so you go Fuck It and get yourself moving. Fuck It is like Just Do It, which I personally admire and adhere to, but Fuck It seems a little more motivating. Just Do It is a command, while Fuck It doubles as a reason on top of being a call to action

Fuck It is also a great way to resolve a shitty event. If you're in a bad mood, that anger, sadness, or irritation isn't going to change into positivity in one step. While the Stages of Grief are theorized by Kubler-Ross, a simpler way to understand the process is to know that before a genuine positive mindset comes neutrality regarding thinking about the matter, and before neutrality is bitterness. Bitterness is a negative emotion but a lot more manageable than an unprocessed negative feeling. Bitterness is not too much a step away from raw negative feelings as it is hopefully merely the same feeling in a different light, but the effects of converting that feeling to bitterness is substantial. While there are many professionals to help you with the entire process of therapy, there is only so much you can feel about being different if things aren't clicking. Fuck It alone can be a mentality to guide you towards bitterness and even beyond that. Let’s be real, just because you quoted the Dali Lama doesn't mean you found peace or know how to get there. Fuck It is a tool for you to use in the hopes of getting the ball rolling on things you want to get accomplished. Let’s say for example that people were difficult: instead of thinking “Gosh wow people suck,” and being bummed by that, you could think “Everyone can go fuck themselves” and prioritize what is important to you. Both address the same frustration, though the latter does a better job in helping you as an individual not be bogged down by others. I don't know all of you with our individual problems or the magnitude of them although if I gave Fuck It as a universal response, I believe a lot of you can get a handle on things and benefit from it. Sometimes when something bugs us we can't help but to think about it, so Fuck It, don't think about it or let or let it bother you

Here are the reasons why you should keep wasting time, energy, and everything in between on something that you know you're better off not being concerned about: a lot of complicated bullshit all tangled up and untying it seems like it’s gonna take too long even if it was possible in the first place, or Fuck It and take a step back

Because Fuck It is a statement with the rationale justifying it being the statement itself, it doesn't need further lessons to understand it's importance. While it may not teach you a whole lot about life, it doesn't require extensive analysis or keep you from understanding all of its implications and complexity. People are lazy if they had the option to so Fuck It is not only effective and efficient, but compatible with the way people want to act and do act. So Fuck It, just because

Fuck It might not be a substitute to seat belts and a decent regular diet, and there are instances in which you may not want to Fuck It. While at times we might need to be highly intentional and conscientious, Fuck It is an efficacious and versatile tool

So in summary, Fuck It works well because it is its own justification, its simplicity is honest, compelling, and emotionally raw, can be used to combat and cushion adverse situations, fears, and timidity, open people up from perhaps perceived routines and expectations while catalyzing change in a quick and practical way
