Get Comfortable
Life Improvement

Comfort will always be every business' selling point and each individual's personal appeal. Who doesn't like to be pleased? While comfort is an important component to life and makes the world go round, it is detrimental in excess

In an occupational sense one does not find comfort in hard and meaningful work. Working out athletically is not comfortable and in fact exhausting. A healthful diet doesn't taste as good as a deep fried buttery one. Studying to make academic progress and putting in the extra hours at work isn't the most exciting thing to do, but it is worth the while. We all enjoy comfort as a natural desire, but there are activities that make us a better person which require us to give up comfort

Comfort is at times incompatible with outgoing personalities. Speaking publicly on stage in front of a large audience can be a bit uncomfortable. Hitting on someone can be uncomfortable. Failing miserably at both can be uncomfortable. Speaking up and talking back or standing up for yourself, requesting a big favor, asking or talking about sensitive topics can be uncomfortable. Practicing martial arts with someone and getting hit or pinned may be a bit uncomfortable. However, the willingness to be in uncomfortable situations especially when things are at stake is how one builds courage and this is possible only by initially giving up comfort. One may later on find comfort in doing such things but that is after a process of continually giving it up and developing the mentality of doing fine without it

Comfort also doesn't help with addiction. Drinking, dabbling in recreational drugs, gambling, going on shopping sprees, having eating disorders, maintaining a workaholic mentality or even pursuing greed can be bothersome as these things are done out of comfort. We are inclined to want more of it, if and when possible. We should all live relatively comfortable lives but a lot of us can be insatiable in our quest of maximizing comfort. It is perfectly fine to indulge in these things ever so often but continuously pursuing comfort and being seemingly obsessed and dictated by it isn't great either

Comfort gets in the way of humility. Apologizing candidly isn't the easiest thing one desires to do and the discomfort of sacrificing ego may be noble but not always the path most chosen. Putting up with people's bullshit out of selflessness and empathy isn't the most comfortable thing to do either, though it can make you a better person

All that being said, comfort is a valuable and coveted feeling that doesn't always bring out the best in us. People are animalistic by nature and like all animals it is our instinct to naturally want and need this feeling though it can take on a form of hedonism if one lives solely for it. Our flight and fight instinct kicks in when comfort is at stake. But as people it is through our sophistication in which we forgo comfort for the finer things in life. So we do what we wish to fulfill our primal instincts though we should be aware that it is ideal in moderation. Even for the best of us we falter with the decision making process as we often opt for comfort or haven't gotten past the hurdle of finding satisfaction not contingent with simple pleasures. Under a lot of pressure, stress, and anxiety one can crave more of it or malfunction altogether so while comfort is essential, circumstances push us to give in and find more to balance out adverse feelings or find an escape from them. As with stress, it is not wholistic to concern comfort of being purely good or bad but when we find displeasure clearly incongruent with an optimal mentality we look for "positivity", only to have quick fixes produce more negativity than we benefitted from. It is our animalistic nature that concerns stress to be bad and comfort to be good but sophistication holds that both feelings should and do take on either form

Though to realistically put this to practice, yes you might generally flourish while having comfort as working in peace or studying at the library can bring out your best performance, so comfort at times may be a necessity for productivity. Meditation and massages are soothing and relaxing and yes you should take a break every so often as prolonged continuous labor can diminish quality and efficiency. Though again there are times in which you might have to navigate in high stress situations so while comfort is overall a thing to keep in mind, the best of us will occasionally have to go without looking for it
