Guess What: Life is not Fair
Life Improvement

When we were young, we complained about the fairness in some situations. We find those situations to be unfair. We most likely found this to be evident within our families and go to our parents or friends how it is so unfair that so-and-so was treated better than you are. But while we were young we just thought that this was within our family. Then you found some unfairness within your group of friends and find better ones, then found some unfairness with the application process for a job or school, then found more unfairness when you got there

Life is not fair. There is no one, not even God in the bible, who said that it would be. Not that I expect you to be religious, but if you assume that Jesus is an optimistic guy you would think that somewhere in that big book we call the bible there should be something along the lines saying that life is fair, but if you actually read it from cover to cover, you would find out there is no such claim [1]

We need to realize that this is true always and true for everyone. This unfairness really can’t be solved with huge extrapolations: if someone tells you that someone in the third world is living a miserable life and that you should be grateful for what you have, it will go over your head. Yeah, it’s true, and if you aren’t a child who doesn’t know about peoples’ lives in other countries, you already know. But if you are dealing with a child or pre-teen, then yeah, maybe this will work

The reason why this doesn’t work is because we aren’t trying to compare ourselves to those kinds of people. Maybe the truly passionate have emotional problems with it, but if you find someone who cries over it then let me know. If you turned down a higher paying job at a corporation so you could work at a charity, then you probably proved me wrong. Otherwise, virtually all of us don't emotionally or financially go out of our way all that much to fix such matters

By and large, we find problems with fairness when we meet or interact with other people around us, and worse, those we share the same group with. We ignore third world problems because at the end of the day, they are in the third world, so expecting them to be like us and being surprised that they aren’t is a little irrational. But if we have coworkers who have our same job titles, do the same work as us, and even worked for as long as us, we expect equality in the way that we are treated. I give work as an example, but you can apply this to a lot of other groups 

Thinking that life is unfair is not a thought in which we should dwell on. Somewhere along the lines of you being envious that someone is being treated better than you, there is another person out there who thinks that towards you as well. Thinking that your emotions are important and other’s aren’t is a form of narcissism

There are a lot of things that you might be frustrated by. We can fix problems, but don’t let problems consume you or take it out on others. I myself have been guilty of this. And when we realize that we can't take it out on them or that the person who are seemingly different don’t bear fault, we blame the concept of life as a whole. And if you are religious, then you can go blame your higher power that life isn't fair while already knowing that I argued that it isn't realistic to do so in the Judeo-Christian sense

But back to the concept of third world countries: for the sake of argument, lets say that you’re not a psychopath and wield the emotional cognition to recognize pain when you see it. So you know that genocide and war are terrible things, but the homeless guy you see every other weekend gets ignored. What is at play are the boundaries of your worldview. You may not have included Syria, the Gaza Strip, or North Korea into the view of your world. But you included America as a whole, you included your family, you included your coworkers, and you included your own friends into the view of the world. Therefore, you are not affected by the events that are outside your world, that is, all the shit that happens far far away, but you did include the events within your world, including your own country, workplace, family, and friends. So even if you’re not a psychopath, you don’t go crying over the pain of the 7.53 billion people in the world, unless you’re the kind of person who refuses to buy clothes since they were all made in a miserable factory ran by underpaid workers

The solution to “Life is not fair” is to not include everyone in your emotional playground

Yes, don't be an ignorant fool and pretend that your family, coworkers, and friends do not exist or that their feelings do not matter to you, but in the way that the misery of the third world is not a part of your mind, don’t make the happiness of those close to you (or not even close to you at all) to be a part of your world as well. This is not easy. You do this by making your emotional obligations inclusive of only yourself and the people that you care about. Maybe even care about the third world as much as you can. It will distract you from your own pain, and maybe even give you purpose in life

I heard it is incredibly awesome to travel around Europe. I heard. I have been all over Seoul and Busan and love being there. But whenever I come back home, the events that have happened in those places are truly not a part of my life at home. You should have the same view of the people you are envious of. Yes, you can chalk up to the fact that the people who live halfway across the world who seem happy are that way because Holland looks like such an exotic place that is so far away anyway, but this does not make the idea that Holland is heaven to be true. Even if it was true, those events do not affect your happiness and mentality at home. Apparently the English have this opinion towards California and I lived in SoCal for a while. You emotionally detach yourself from the people you have to see all the time, be it in person or on the internet (If you do think other places are that much greater than where you live now than I guess make a change in location if all else goes wrong, but don’t jump the gun on it)

The internet kinda fucked us over in our emotional sense. Instead of comparing ourselves to just our family, coworkers, and friends, we started to compare ourselves with the whole entire world. We add people on Facebook and Instagram and see their lives from there on out as well as their past. There will always be someone who has a happier life than we have. Always. But if we have this feeling towards celebrities, it will add on to the feeling we already have towards our peers. I suggest getting off the internet if you understand this feeling and suffer from it

When we think that life is not fair, we are stuck in a cycle of being in a situation that we do not like, finding events or people that are to blame, then dwelling in an emotional state. As a result of that, we will be prevented from taking action improving such circumstances. The end result is that we are back to being in the situation we were in the first place after a day passed, and the cycle continues. What can also happen is when the third step of emotion causes us to be in a worse position than we were before, so it is important that this does not happen as it is very possible, depending on the situation you are in or your emotional health

It may not necessarily be that life is unfair but you might be in this cycle. There are bad events that aren't "Life is not fair" but they can still start this cycle or add on to it

It may be that some bad events will not complete this cycle. Let's say you broke your arm. Depending on how old you are and how much responsibility you couldn't fulfill because of that, you might just come out fine. Or let's say that you lost a friend or someone you were dating. This might start the cycle. But with broken arms and lost friends, these things can be fixed over time. But the overall idea that life is not fair is the hardest to combat since this cannot be fixed. Life will always be unfair. But there is more to life than dealing with one single issue at a time, so the aggregate of that will influence how this cycle works

You need to nonetheless find an escape from the cycle. For an easy summary of how this can be done, you need to put yourself in situations you like better than the last time, stop blaming people and events, control your emotions, or force yourself to take better actions even though you have negative emotions. There are four steps in this cycle, so work on one or all of them

It is unideal to be at a job we do not like, to have friends who let us down, or to want to earn more money, but these problems can be addressed and fixed

But the true issue in mind when we say "Life isn't fair" are the things fated since birth. We were born with a certain genome. We were born with a certain family. We had no control over that whatsoever. Of all the books and online articles I read that were not explicitly about race, only one book (that happened to be a best seller) mentioned the topic of race. If this is an issue, most mentors don’t seem to address it, if not completely ignore the matter

And yes… I will agree with you 100%. Maybe you aren't as tall as you wanted to be or your facial structure is already set, the color of your skin is already a part of your body, and the size of your sex organs are pretty much the way they are as you won’t have a cock that compares to a porn star’s nor will you ever get to be a Victoria’s Secret Angel

Maybe you grew up with a dad who was nothing but a total asshole who cheated on your mom who abused you as a kid then she came back and started a screaming match with him. Some of your siblings had hit you and some others got treated like royalty. Or maybe you never got to have any siblings at all and spent summers alone growing up as a kid and hated it whenever your classmates wrote in your yearbook "Have a good summer!" since they did not know that you won't have that great of a summer. Maybe you never got to be a teacher's pet. Or maybe you hear about the country your ancestry was based on blasted on the media for all the shitty things they are still doing even though you never spent a day in your life there

We all have a past and a present. We all have things that we went through and may envy those who don’t carry the burdens we do. We look at our childhood, our present situation, our own bodies naked and think that, "Life is not fair"

It isn't. I still don’t have the unwavering capabilities in applying this to myself and I am still trying to get grip of my own concepts. I have my own fair share of painful experiences and maybe this is why I started blogging in the first place

The more I try to change things that can’t be changed, I have less and less energy in doing so. Maybe since I am bipolar I just want to give one last blow to some of the people I do not like, just to put them in their place: don't ever fuck with me ever again or I will destroy your sense of worth as a human being just because I can

But between the lines of Machiavelli and Christianity, as much I try to conquer or forgive others, the one thing that won’t ever change is that life is not fair. It never was, it still isn't, and never will be

People have different philosophies. I am not strictly talking about the kind of philosophy you might learn in school: I am talking about Buddhism, Machiavelli, and Deity based religions. I am talking about the philosophies made by generals who created and conquered empires and beliefs that were founded by those who preached peace and liberation. Whatever route you do chose, you will need to find what works best for you in your specific circumstances. You cannot go around forgiving everyone who hurt you as you will be left behind without a backbone to do better the next time. You cannot wage war on everyone you do not like as you will be left alone among a pack of wolves. You will not be able to be friends with everyone as there is no life in which not a single person cannot stand the thought of you. Although academic philosophy is fascinating but that’s another topic of conversation for another day

There is a belief that some of you might have that everything is fine. Life is indeed fair. You never had a huge problem in your life and everything in your life worked out for you. This is a dangerous belief because if you have this belief you will never challenge yourself to be a better person. You will be later on known as the ignorant fool who is naïve and unsophisticated. So everything you learned in school worked out for you. Everything you heard on the news worked out for you. Family was perfect

Then one day something might go to shit and you will be that person people wonder how you don’t know how to cope with the things everyone else went through. They might even sneer at you for being so seemingly perfect but not. Since life is not fair and people envy those above them, then imagine how they might act when they finally celebrate that their belief that you have a better life than they did comes out to be false

While this is a self-improvement blog, it is not a happy-go-lucky then everything will be alright kind of blog. Be happy, but don’t be ignorantly bliss. You should create happiness and value the happiness you do have

Whenever you play Texas-Hold-Em, you are dealt a pair of cards and play among others. You make a gamble. You do this for as many rounds as your bank or willpower allows you to and win against others who have a better hand or lose to someone who had a weaker hand. Life is like a game of poker. Somewhat. But in the sense you don’t simply walk out the casino and leave all your chips there just because you were dealt a bad hand, you can't just quit on life because life isn't fair and you know for sure that you have a bad hand. If you change your demeanor because you have a bad hand, then the way you play the game will negatively affect you

This isn't the best example as you can always work on improving the circumstances that you are present in. But in a sense life is like being dealt a one round game of poker. You were given that hand. That pair of cards is your life. This will be the only round. There is no reset to life, there is no do over, there is no asking for a better hand. There is no, “Can we go back and have different cards come out when we do the flop?", "Can we trade cards?", or "Why was your hand better than mine?" You are given a hand and you are to make the best out of that hand

They say that the grass isn't greener on the other side. This piece of advice, while it may be factually true, is not emotionally compelling. The proper advice is to water your own lawn instead of being fixated on someone else’s. While your neighbor's yard is obviously larger than yours, if they do not water and take care of it, theirs will turn dry and parched. You can have a small yard but if you dedicate yourself to make a nice garden, even those with bigger yards will look at yours and wonder how you did it. There is probably nothing you can do about the size of the yard that you were given, but it is entirely up to you regarding how you plant seeds and nurture your plants

Once in a while there will be a storm that wrecks havoc on our yards and gardens. There will be pests and critters who try to eat away at your lawn. Mother Nature shows no mercy on plants and terrain, so it probably doesn’t care much about you either

Imagine a perfect world. Imagine a world where you were the sole voice of how everything in life would work out. I guess fascists tried to do this but ended up not meeting everyone’s needs or failed to satisfy humanity's emotional desires, but you can try. You can get back to me if you ever find a blueprint of the perfect world, but there isn't one. So don't be so frustrated when things in the world don't work out for you. Everyone thinks that

To a degree, life is indeed fair. Yes, the best life you might ever have might still fall short compared to someone else's. But me talking about how life is not fair does not take away the fact that sometimes it is fair

The rules of life apply to everyone and apply to all of us the same. There is no person who gets what they want without proper attitude and technique. If you walk with your head down, you won't get what you want. Yeah sure, behind the reasons why you are bummed out there is no reason why you can't walk with your back straight, shoulders behind, and chin up. If you're not willing to change your opinions or worldview and are unhappy with your own beliefs, then you will be stuck in the prison that is your mind. A pat on the back might help and probably will be significant in changing your mental state, but pats on the back alone are not things that will make your ends meet. Pats on the back are motivational, which is meant for change, not just externally but internally as well

Foundations in the physical sense are the solid concrete bases that support a building. That is what foundations are and do. But that is all there is to it. There is no point in having a good foundation without a building on top. You just end up having a slab of concrete people will wonder what it's up to

Having a good support group is beneficial. But a good support group doesn't mean anything if that support group doesn't change or build anything. You can stroke each other's egos but it should be used to solve problems and create solutions, as opposed to universally stating problems and solutions over and over again. Or worse, just stating problems and even having fun stating them as if the validation of surrounding yourself with people who think like you who can't make change is something that is meaningful

To bring it back to the concept of the four step cycle: if you are in a cycle, you need to independently, or collectively with friends, break the cycle. The problem with a useless foundation is that you will be stuck in the cycle and since you have support, there will be a lack of insight that the cycle exists and because your ego was stroked, continue the cycle since you have people who travel the cycle with you

For example, you are young and drink with friends. This is not a problem and for a while there is no cycle. But a cycle emerges as we drink to get over things and allay deeply seeded issues while doing this together. But as we get older we will be more apparent of said cycle, which gets worse over time. As time passes, a group of people who travel the cycle together will have individuals who break the cycle, and the group will diminish until there is an individual who ends up stuck in the cycle alone, maybe only to realize that the cycle existed the whole time in the first place. Maybe they will leave the cycle themselves too. Perhaps they will find people to replace those who left and stay in the cycle

Life changes, especially significant life changes, are a result of nuanced analysis, careful planning, and dedicated commitment

I find that it helps to write my thoughts out and force myself to read it 30 times. I find it therapeutic

———————————————————

In revising this article years later, I came a long way. This article is a little scattered and meandered a variety of topics. Writing was new to me then

In analyzing my article, I start with the ideological idea of fairness, such as family and religion, then pretty soon I incorporate fairness within society. Towards the end I play devils advocate. Even in wanting to revise this, I don’t immediately have a prettier article. I somewhat “apologize” for that, but maybe unfairness is that unpleasant that there is no article that can put a pleasant spin on it. I tried though

If you want some advice, I have other articles you can check out. But as for the topic at hand, I still feel it’s worth leaving up. While “the most motivating article” isn’t this, maybe reading about someone who thinks about this can help you feel less alone. Again, unfairness can be a topic without a happy ending, and without a happy ending there probably won’t be a happy article. As for myself, I came a long way and wrote a lot of other articles, which I an proud of. As for actual advice, there is a whole world out there :) Unfairness is just a part of that. It’s always gonna be there, and it’s not gonna have a happy ending, but your life is about you. Us. Together, everyone, what have you. Well, let’s start with us. Try and make your life about you. I spent years past feeling where my life was owned by unfairness and luck of drama and politics or fame and stuff like that, but my life is about me. It’s about the people I want to see grow, the people I care about and all. All in all, it’s about making your life yours, and if you still think about things like fairness, you still got a bit to go in taking ownership of your life. As for me, it took a life’s worth of living and I’m still kinda young. I got some ways to go still. But yeah. I’ll try and write something again another time

[1] The bible does not say that life is fair, but the concept of fairness that was preached is that Jesus died to offer salvation to anyone who believed in him. So what the bible does preach is that the after-life is fair
