Having Everything
Amateur Philosophy

It's possible but it ain't easy

There are some real easy examples to point out in the differences such how Snoop Dogg can smoke weed and as a Senator maybe not, even if snoop might make more money than one on average. Though without pulling out some more easy examples out of the top of your head you could say that something that someone can or can't do has a conflict of interest with another part of that person. It is simple to describe, though how conflicts of interests play out between individuals becomes a mess

Been a while since I thought about some of the petty stuff. I threw a party one time and I had two of my friends whom I like both tell me they couldn't stand the other guy. I used to have a group of friends who splintered off in different groups and just as a way of how young kids are, you got friends you are close with and some you're even closer with, and to sum it up, you are good friends with someone and they're friends with someone you're not friends with and you're friends with someone they're not. Though while this is how shit usually goes, it didn't really change all that much as I got older with jobs and all. Often times you see a coworker you're buddies with and you got that work wife though not everyone is everyone else's work wife and it turns out that the buff guy is the quiet dude's older brother you found out two weeks into the job or something like that. Your managers used to date not that you really cared and you got coworkers hooking up eventually. And as vague as this all is, it seems that the petty stuff doesn't get any less complicated as you get older, especially to top it off with the erotic

While it is simple to declare "starting today the President and everyone on the Hill is going to do coke whenever they want to and y’all deal with it," it’s going to be tough to have it all. Even if everyone were pretty much the same inside and out, everyone is going to have different conflicts of interests with others. Outside the YouTube prankster who screws with random strangers and the likes of the sort, within everyday life and even towards the more chaotic parts of "everyday life", what causes conflicts in general in the first place came down to a conflict of interest

It’s always going to be tough to have it all since conflict is unavoidable and conflict comes from conflicts of interests, which exist even if people aren't all that different

While politics is fascinating for all that it is, people can spar with each other for being similar in and of itself. You know, if you wanted a flavored sports drink, I don't know if y'all care if I got you a Gatorade or a Powerade. Though for being pretty identical, they have a pretty heavy conflict of interest that is different from Red Bull or the sort. So when you apply this to people, yeah, differences didn't arise because people were different. The feeling exists all the same even if people are the same, not to have to mention historically between nations

Compromise is on paper the easy solution in dealing with conflicts of interests. Like how people have unique personalities, people between personalities and situations can have even more complex levels of conflicts. I don't think we need a compromise on whether Gatorade is better than Powerade so with these kinds of conflicts: some of the time the indeed best solution is to not treat it like a problem because it isn't. And for the friends of mine not haven gotten along, the best idea would have been to deal with it casually. And for the more nuanced conflicts of interest, well: once I was a line cook making pizzas and my coworker got sent home early (not really she's been there since the morning) and my shift manager didn’t know how to do anything (not a joke) so during the early winter the restaurant was slammed with this holiday parade thing that ended so my ticket line was covered in tickets the whole way down and I was the only one working in the kitchen. So orders got backed up and I did all the dine in orders and ditched all the deliveries so people started to kinda fight depending on if they were a server or a driver. Would rather tell someone who was waiting at home to wait than some family all lined outside the restaurant. So sometimes when you have a conflict of interest, you don't have a choice to avoid the issue and don’t have time to make a decision and every decision you do make will suck one way or another, but you make what you think is the best decision anyway. So yeah

Every person probably has an issue they can bring up and talk about, so to better organize simple and complex problems is to understand how much the issue was the person or the idea. It still varies though, since with the people close to you perhaps more conflicts of interest can exist over some smart-ass on Reddit or the sort. If you opt to value people much more over an idea, then you yourself might become someone who doesn't stand up for an ideal, and if you think too highly of ideas, then you could be or be surrounded by the stubborn side of things. So to start going about it, for the four to sixteen personality types people apparently have, conflicts and conflicts of interest have probably just as many personalities, if not more. People cause conflicts of interest in the first place, so go figure
