Illusions / Delusions
Amateur Philosophy

Illusions are an integral part of projecting and absorbing constructs within most parts of life. The burger you see in a commercial is showcased visually and looks more pleasing than the ones you get in real life, not everyone has the most charming smile when working out at the gym without breaking a sweat after having waited to use the bench press and no one chugs a beverage with their left hand on their hip while standing up with their chin to the sky. A girl who likes you says she likes sushi but can't use chopsticks to save her life and I say hiking is cool though it takes me forever to motivate me to actually go. We use filters on pictures and talk about how Earth Day is an awesome day and of course we want people to see the best in us. Illusions aren't the worst things as we take a glass of water and add a little more water to it to help maintain a positive mentality. Everyone does, and probably should, incorporate illusions in everyday life

You can say using them is a way of stretching the truth and it is indeed, but illusions do in a way add beauty to life and make living more pleasant. We do live in a world where Santa comes down the chimney and eats your cookies after placing presents under the tree while the tooth fairy buys your enamels. Diamonds are forever, just like your marriage, and babies are like the cutest things ever. Illusions are important to utilize in everyday life as you don't want to tell the job interviewer that your biggest weakness when it comes to the professional workplace includes pushup bras

So yes, illusions can be practically beneficial. The fortune cookie tells you some good luck is around the corner and it’s fun checking up on your horoscope to get a tad bit of advice and compare your sign with others for shits and giggles. As previously mentioned, New Years feels like a "New Year, New Me" and when you turn 18 or 21 you feel like an adult so you have the urge to live it up like you wanted to. If you're with a chick and she sees another girl and asks you what you think about her, it’s ideal to not be truly honest with your response. It's also alright that she doesn't know anything about football or if he's got a fantasy team you cannot care about even if you tried. Just smile and nod or laugh it off or roll your eyes or whatever

Illusions also serve another purpose: to help you feel good. You lost your job or got dumped or heard some unfortunate news. At times when you're feeling in the dumps, it's nice to hear and think that there's always sunnier days ahead even if the prospects seem bleak. Having the unjustified faith that things will once again end up perfectly fine with an illusion of positivity can help you weather rough stretches of time if you so wish to let it

For all the ways illusions are crucial, unfortunately there are two sides to a coin and illusions can devolve into delusions. Of course we know Santa is not real and fast food is pretty much the same it was yesteryear, but we fall into delusion when we believe in an idea that stretched the truth a bit too far or was fabricated altogether to avoid reality and keep a belief alive. Exaggeration of extrapolations and misinterpreting the facts to have the truth fit our wishes and desires starts to prohibit rationality. Perhaps it was done out of love, perhaps it was done out of hate. Often enough it was done out of pride and ego and we really wanted things to go one way or another

We delude ourselves that mixing friendship and business goes smoothly and it's easy to be good at gambling and I am indeed a functioning alcoholic as long as you ignore the bags of empty bottles in the bin and the coursework that isn't related to my major is worthless and I am the shit at talking about politics because everyone loves me. It's great to have self esteem and faith in the things you believe in, but sometimes it becomes a bit too much. We can recognize physical illusions like the ones in TV commercials, but a delusion is a misled mentality gone too far the wrong way

If you realize you're stuck in a delusion, give yourself a slap on the face. Like emotions, have illusions work with you and not against you. Though of course it will be easy to fall into one as they are pertinent to life. When it comes to the difference, actions speak louder than words so sitting down with reality can be seen with philosophical empiricism, that is, that truth derived from the senses. In this case, the physical things you see though this dismisses existentialism and the concept of abstract ideas. All abstract concepts are in a sense, illusions. Camaraderie, friction, and status are abstract ideas as they are not specifically represented with physicality. Faith, trust, hope, and stigma are all abstract concepts that wield illusions, making them easily prone to morph into delusions. Having abstract ideas is important as it gives meaning to life. Being a doubtful person who focuses on the materialistic world can be pessimistic, and being idealistic can be delusional. So the best way to work with illusions is to be optimistic in a way that allows the best to be brought out of people and things, but not forcing optimism. I will not say that there is anything wrong with having a high sense of optimism, although what I do find practical is that we should evoke optimism in a way that isn't coerced as that may not settle well with yourself or for others. 

Optimism is probably the opposite of worrying: spending too much time worrying doesn’t get you anywhere even if there is a reason behind it. This probably goes for optimism as well. It may be a given that worrying is a bad thing, but I don’t think we talk much about overoptimism. If you are reading this blog, chances are you want life advice and perhaps you came across a therapist who was too optimistic (maybe that’s me) or friends who meant well but couldn’t relate. Being a optimistic person is “easier said than done” and we probably don’t think much of those who can be too optimistic, and then maybe have a hard time relating to optimism in general as a result of all that. Maybe it’s kind of like how it’s not like being “too healthy”, where you wouldn’t tell someone “hey, you are too healthy of a person, please stop being so healthy”. And maybe we have this idea where you can’t say “hey, you are being too optimistic, please stop being so optimistic”. Beyond a whole world of opinions I’m sure someone is going to tell me I’m wrong and someone will tell you that “it’s just like being healthy” 

It’s not. It takes a life’s worth of living to really get the feeling and if you’re here, I hope you find a bit more if you’re looking for it. And I suppose if you didn’t have the easiest time getting it, I want to say that that’s normal

But who knows, sometimes you want to go against the grain and metaphorically swing at a wild pitch and be amazed that you somehow smashed it out of the park
