Introduction: Knowing vs. Understanding
Life Improvement

The purpose of this blog is to give you, the reader, some life advice. It probably won’t be the best, it may be useful, it may be worthless, and it can even be everything in between. If you take away anything from my blog it would be the advice I give in my introduction. I would like to teach you how to listen to advice as a whole

Before you found this blog you have been given a lot of advice. Even after you read all the articles that this blog might have to offer, you will probably be looking for more. What we do with the advice we are given is the next step as there is a difference between knowing and understanding things

Knowing something is relatively easy. You hear something, and assuming you don’t ignore it or forget about it, you will know about the concepts that have been given to you. Provided that you were willing to listen, you should do just fine knowing things. Understanding something is a bit harder. It is not easy to put in words what it means to understand something but I can give you some examples so you can, for a lack of a better words, understand what it means to understand something

If you are or have been in college for a major related to engineering, you know that you are given the laws of science as well as formulas to model those laws. While it is easy to remember that the centripetal acceleration is the velocity squared divided by the radius, it is not easy to understand where this came from or how to apply that concept [1]. Then there is Euler’s Equation, which is easy to prove but impossible to understand why it is important and what can possibly be useful about it. Therefore, professors allow you to have a formula sheet because knowing those things is not hard at all; you can probably get anyone who hates math and science to remember those things if you paid them enough money. It is only around 12 equations that are eight letters long each. While knowing the equations is easy, it takes a lot of skill to understand how to apply the formulas you learned in class

I’m sure this applies to non-engineering majors, but I don’t know from personal experience

I had friends whose parents went through a divorce. My own parents are still happily married; they just had their 33rd anniversary. While my friends told me about the situation about their own parents’ romances (or lack thereof), it does not mean that I understand what that means. I do not understand the effect of having parents who professed their love for each other to no longer want to be with each other. I do not know how this affected my own friends and their siblings. I do not know how this changed the dynamic between my friends and their individual parents. I do not know how this altered their views of marriage altogether and how this changed their expectations of marriage when they do get married, or if they want to

One of my friends had their parents divorced when he was five years old. I had a friend whose parents were planning on a divorce when their youngest child went off to college and were separated when I heard about this. I had a friend who was raised by foster parents. I had a friend who was raised by a single mom. I knew friends who had half siblings. I had a friend who was a lesbian who dated another girl, broke up with her, and got back with her after her girlfriend had a kid, only to break up with her again when her girlfriend became straight all over again. My own grandparents had an arranged marriage: my grandmother saw a picture of my grandfather and went “Alright cool I’ll marry him,” and then they got married and had one of the most successful lives I could think of. Grandpa and Grandma on my dad’s side lived to see one of their great-grandchildren be born

I know these things happened, but it is a different level of wisdom to understand the emotional implications of such things. I can imagine what it feels like to be in their shoes, but unless my friends sit down and talk about their deepest thoughts with me, I can only imagine

When people, including myself, give you advice, it is the same as memorizing an equation or hearing about events. That is all that is accomplished when advice is given to you. You may have been told to step outside your comfort zone scores of times, but maybe you never did as much as you wanted to. Maybe you know you should quit drinking or to lose weight but continue drinking or eating the way you always did, even if you have the desire to be a better person. Maybe you want to take on a new challenge, develop character, be fearless and confident, or to let go of painful experiences. But you don’t. Simply knowing advice and even wanting the things you want does not mean that the change you want will happen

We all want change. A lot of change. And we all want all of that change now. If you want to be a millionaire, you might, if you put effort in it. But those million dollars aren’t going to show up tomorrow, save a miracle or breakthrough, but even those things don’t happen overnight

So the casino will allure us; maybe we can go all-in on $300 and double that five times and walk out the door with 10 grand at the least (while I do want to say that money should not be the primarily object to develop your happiness and well-being, but that is a topic of conversation for another day). A huge leap in wealth is something virtually all of us won’t achieve, and fundamentally, that is not how change works. In the same way, your personality is not going to change overnight. Your ideal family and social network are not going to magically appear tomorrow. And if you really wanted a huge change in personality, you probably can get one with a concussion (I had one personally as a kid so I think I would know but don’t ever go that route obviously)

If you ever played an athletic sport, you know that your skills were not developed in a week or two. You practiced for years, if not a lifetime. You did not simply see LeBron juke a defender to be able to know how to do that. You took another athlete and practiced with them. You failed a hundred times and kept practicing a hundred more times so you would be better the next hundred times. There is no such thing as perfection. As an athlete, you aim to be better than you were the last time by practicing again and again

Behavior, personality, goals, accomplishments, and happiness are the same. Genuine change is a product of practice, dedication, and patience. There will be a lot of failure and disappointment along the way. After all, if you never failed getting to where you want to go, then what reasons are there to hold you back and why are you reading my blog in the first place?

But back to knowing and understanding: the best I can do for you is give you the tools to be a better person and hope that I can improve your life. But you are the one to develop the desire to change and make those adjustments a part of your life

There is a Russian saying: if you want to be good at something, you do it a thousand times. If you want to be great at something, you do it ten thousand times

I think it’s Russian and I think that is how the saying goes. Doctors have speculated the concept of muscle memory, but this applies to our emotions as well. In the way Curry didn’t have the ability to shoot half court sinkers just because he wanted to, your sense of an individual is not going to change just because you want to be different

You go to the gym once. You go to the gym twice. Maybe another handful of times. At this point, going to the gym is something you did a few times. But once you force yourself to go for two months, you will realize that you go not because you are forcing yourself to, but that going to the gym is a part of your routine and your life. Eventually you will know that you don’t give much thought or effort in making the trip to go work out. This is true for all change. You do something different and after you have done it more times than you can count, this behavior will be ingrained into the kind of person you are

People tend to give good advice. I am sure I can give good advice, you can give good advice, we can all give each other good advice and guess what? It is also likely that we ignore all the advice we give each other and be stuck at square one

It looks easier to make behavior changes than it is to sink a half courter, but it is the opposite. It is harder to change our emotional mechanisms because there is a lot more to the mind while the concept of a half court shot is simple since you’re trying to make sure the ball goes through the hoop. With a half court shot you know you have succeeded when the ball goes through the net and you know you failed when it doesn’t. Emotional change, career success, relationships, and even happiness are not things you know you succeed or failed in. The way we get to success, whatever that is, is not simple to determine

Although if you can constantly nail threes, that is awesome. Not trying to undermine the difficulty in that

Lastly, success is not an object but a lifestyle. Instead of thinking, “I want a nice body,” the proper view is to think, “I will have a lifestyle that includes good diet and exercise so that I will be sexy”. Instead of thinking, “I want to be married with a wife/husband,” the better thought is to think, “I want to have a life that I share with my wife/husband”. Instead of thinking, “I want to go to that school or be at that company,” the proper idea is to aspire to be the kind of person that such institutions will want to take you in. The former ideas don’t help since once you achieve a certain goal you don’t have the lifestyle to sustain genuine success. There is no finish line where you stop trying just because you got to a certain point or possess something, and this view is worse when you have this view regarding people

All in all, you need to find for yourself the personal reasons and implications in how the advice that is given to you will help you, then develop the motivation in executing said advice. I most likely do not know you. I do not have the ability to shape all my advice and tailor it to make sure it is perfect for you. And even if I could, I can’t make a horse drink even if I take it to water

 ———————————————————-

Welcome to baespeaks.com! I tinkered the idea of making a blog for a while but made the final decision to do so a few days ago and just bought my domain recently after that. I don’t know how it is going to end up or where it will take me. I just hope you enjoy being here and take away as much as I can offer

Till another day,

Daniel Bae

————————————————————

[1] Centripetal acceleration is useful for things like the gravity between the moon and earth, but in everyday scenarios it is useful for knowing how to turn a car around a corner at a higher speed without losing control. When you decelerate, you also have a force that is pointing forward in the direction of the car’s path, and since the net force is closer to the direction the car is facing (as opposed to perpendicular), you maintain more control not by merely going slow but “shoving” the car in the forward direction while making a sharp turn. This hypothetically prevents roll-over, as the car is longer (across a diagonal) than it is wide
