Kinda Nothing
Amateur Philosophy

  

It has been medically proven that “nothing” can cause a change in feeling and perception

Doctors nowadays, because of some study, deliver placebos to patients when they test and research the validity and usefulness of drugs and medicines. They gave patients a sugar pill that did not have the drug to some test patients while giving the experimental treatment to others and found that even those who got the placebo had experienced side effects. It seems like in a medical sense it’s good to know, but the bigger takeaway is that “pretty much nothing” can cause people to feel things

The big bang theory is an idea that claims that the mass of half a galaxy was inside the size of an atom and exploded and thus, the universe was made [1]. Perhaps consider cogito ergo sum, the philosophical notion that “I think therefore I am,” or even simpler: because I think, my thinking mind exists as a thinking mind has to exist for me to even think that. Yawn. You could just think it is boring to hear if you’re not particularly interested in those topics and sure I would agree. But even to clear up the notion that “nothing” is based off the size of the universe and that we are just a speck of the whole entire universe, its not like we are God himself who looks at the whole entire universe at every single aspect of it then took a person and divided that by the size of the universe and got to a figure like .0000000000000000001% being the worth of a person compared to the universe then sat down and thought, “Yeah. That’s pretty much zero”

Because chances are, even if NASA came out with news at this very moment that they found out the size of the universe was in fact just the milky way or even just this very own solar system, it’s not going to change the way you live your life or the attitudes and beliefs you have. Except maybe if you’re a rocket scientist of some sort then maybe you’d care

So why do we feel things? What causes people to the be way they are? To dismiss the idea “everything is nothing”, which was based on virtual insignificance, exists another medical notion that the things that cause us to have feelings or notions and everything in between could have been caused by nothing. Like with a placebo

Let’s say that you caught a disease and that disease was deteriorating your health and body. You would be stressing about the cause of that - be it any ailment that exists - and because you know that there are some hijacked cells or invasive species causing symptoms, you consider that the underlying cause. But with emotional symptoms we look for causes by thinking about them with ourselves and with others, but there is the good possibility that the cause of such things was out of “nothing”

Oh you might say that there was a time when some hotshot came out with a nice dish based off some secret homestyle recipe and found out that that recipe was taken off the back of a pasta box and wasn’t that special at all. So even with a feeling of good taste, people enjoy having a sense of good taste buds that came from good recipes and feel a little flustered that the recipe wasn’t that extravagant at all. And so sure, maybe we could do the same with emotions and beliefs: maybe like a good recipe there was some great reason why you feel and do things as the person you are, but maybe it was kinda out of nothing. Or simpler, relating all extraordinary events to extraordinary causes

This is in contrast to physical diseases in which there exists a present hypothetical physical thing that causes such symptoms to occur as it seems hard to just get rid of the medical ones knowing that there is indeed something causing it. But like with a simple recipe of a sort, even a pretty much “kinda nothing” can be causing symptoms in our mentality. It might be easier to deal with such symptoms if you also treat the cause of such things to be “kinda nothing”. But god forbid if you looked at getting some kind of infection and think “its nothing,” but if it was a placebo then maybe you would be able to think like that

If you would be so willing to hear of a dickish thought I had: there was a time I started a new job and said hi to some regional manager that I didn’t know about and she wouldn’t say hi back then thought she was shit for not being able to say hi then found out that she was the regional manager and thought “well fuck that”. So maybe I (and perhaps you as well) was unsettled by someone doing nothing, but we might be doing that to others in general. When a staff at a restaurant is doing nothing, when the government is doing nothing, when our friends are doing nothing, it might infuriate us too. So even the concept of “everything is nothing” does not hold water because when we do see and recognize genuine “nothing”, that may piss us off too

Oh even be the kind of person who wants nothing in the world and content with having “nothing”: you’re going to want to live on a desert island. Even if you had all your needs met you would be asking to be on a desert island with nothing over being in Siberia with nothing. So even in the fantasy of a life in which there was nothing, you’re still going to end up asking for one of the nicest beaches to do that at

It seems reductionist to be telling you that some things that happened that do cause a change in your own personality or current behavior was out of nothing, but I for one would say that I acted like such for that reason. For good and bad. Getting along with people and starting drama in my own personal life I dished out, simply out of "nothing". Well, it can’t be out of pure “nothing” all the time, you know; if you smile at someone then they will smile back. And unless that smile costed you an arm and a leg and a Benjamin in between, then it really doesn’t take much at all to throw a smile. You could say that it is “nothing” but it is something, but it might be to you, “kinda nothing”. Between smiles and cold shoulders, there are a lot of things that are indeed “kinda nothing” but even “kinda nothing” means a lot to others and in return to ourselves when we are the ones getting it

There was a time that I was with a friend who was shoulder-checked while we were outside and he was kinda bummed about it. But when I told him about how it was dark outside or that they might be drunk, that in fact, it might have been just “kinda nothing” and that they might really not have done it intentionally, he felt a little better about it. Because even to me, I didn’t notice it and told him it could have very well been just “kinda nothing” and that this was the easy and realistic way to look at the problem: by kinda believing that it wasn’t something that was done out of something

At times we take the things we have for granted. The fact that we get to have a lot of things isn’t something that we really think about. Sure, on paper you can make the claim that you appreciate all the things you have, but really? If you have two people who like you and one who didn’t, wouldn’t you be thinking about the person who dislikes you over the two who do like you? And isn’t there some concept of taking the liking for granted that being pleased is something we want, and because we want it, we accept it then therefore take that for granted? In a sense that because if being pleased is something that should be done, we are more concerned when it doesn’t happen?

Because with smiles that are out of nothing, giving smiles mean more to others than it means to ourselves. Throwing a smile means nothing to me. I would say that it is true for you as well, that throwing smiles mean a lot more to others than it means to you. And it could be the same with a lot of other things, that whatever people give out may be in fact a whole lot of “kinda nothing” and we might not know it,and have a hard time realizing how getting a whole lot of “kinda nothing” may mean a whole lot to us

Even with money they say happiness increases up until $70,000 a year and after that it isn’t going to be an indicator of one’s happiness, as money is indeed kinda something but after a certain point it is kinda nothing. No, I am not asking you to be the kind of person who looks at everything between the north and south poles and think that its “all kinda like really nothing” because hell it ain’t, because as much as you would like to believe that there isn’t much to things, there is meaning to them, but more intriguing is the idea that there is quite a bit of value to something that may be “kinda nothing”. Such with a placebo. That itself is literally nothing, maybe kinda nothing

It does seem like a paradox: that something can be “quite something” but at the same time also actually be “kinda nothing” since it may seem that things should be one way or another, and I guess it isn’t easy to find something that is indeed “kinda nothing” and “quite something”. Kinda doesn’t make sense but maybe it will one way or another. Maybe

You know… as you’re reading this on a blog with pretty much no pictures or artistic layout [2]

———————————————————

[1] The Big Bang theory is that a pretty massive mass (technically not big or heavy) existed within a small volume and the particles dispersed outwards extremely fast from there. During this, more mass was made out of nothing, which also created anti-matter in the process. Researchers have also weighed the mass of the universe and found that the mass of the visible universe only makes up around 20% of the calculated total theoretical mass. The difference of the two was chalked up as dark matter, which is the realization of mass that exists that cannot be seen. I am not a physicist so I could be wrong

[2] I have a blog replica at baespeaks.azurewebsites.net which does have pictures. They do look nice. Credit to whoever made them, I appreciate it
