Leap of Faith
Amateur Philosophy

The turning point of a story, fiction or non-fiction, is often the outcome of some development that was already in the works but unaware to the protagonist's view point that they later find out. There are a lot of examples such as the entire story-telling literary world

Not that I expect you to be religious, but there is a story in which some dude was going to graduate from school and wanted a car, but his dad gifted him a bible which the son got angry in getting. When his dad passed away years later, the son went through the bible and then found a check for the amount of a car's worth. There are stories in which some superhero comes to save the day and some significant other was preparing some surprise gift or event and all

When we live day to day and think of the world of the things we have and see, the people we interact with, and the societal constructs that we are a part of, we limit the boundaries of the world we think we belong in. You may be thinking "I wake up, go to work, hang out with these people, eat this, commute between here and there, and that's about it". Yes, it is true, but that can be depressing at worst and closed-minded at best. The thought exercise is when you will tomorrow meet someone new for the first time in your life, and the two of you will really enjoy each other. Hypothetically life gets better from then on out. But you today don't know that obviously. If you did know this ahead of time today, then it will make you feel nice and if you didn't know (as realistically to again obviously you don't) you will "mistakenly" feel "under optimistic" about your current situation, whether your life is great or not

This thought exercise if you choose to see the worth of it, can help change your mindset. Often times in life I and I'm sure you did as well, thought about "I don't know if its worth it being that nice any more" or "I'm not sure anyone is going to notice" or "I hope someone appreciates the work I put in my life" or "I wonder if life gets better". We look at our current situation and we then think about the way things are and wonder if we are doing the best and if this is the best of all outcomes, to then compromise some ideal such as ditching your friend who went on to do better things years later in life or pass up on driving as safe as possible to get in an accident or scratch the end of your car and all. People naturally can be lazy and doubtful, though dismissing the beneficial value of our actions can give us less hope. Oh, I stopped working out since I don't think it was all that much a big deal anymore since I had better things to work on. Now I look at my bod and while I did make a lot of progress within other aspects of life, it would have been nice to still be hung up about that

This is the way all our outcomes work. That everything is a result of our mindset in acknowledging that it may work. We may be rewarded for our good behavior. We may be admired for standing up for ourselves or for others. We may be enlightened by the reading we do in our free time that no one sees. We may be loved for the virtues we stubbornly hang on to. We may make a new friend tomorrow. Though since we don't know for sure that we will, we should also not let the fact that our inability to do future time travel be the reason why we lack faith in ourselves and our possibilities. Yeah, I'm pretty crazy at times but even more so is the characteristic (not that your know all of me) of overinflated hope that I have in what I'm doing is worthwhile in which other people have a hard time believing it's worth. This may be too aggrandized of a statement but in other words, I have these ideas to which people who do and don't like me look at me and say or think "okay kid, let's see how that turns out … oh wow he did that" when it does work out

Seeing the validity, importance, and optimism we have of the future shapes every individual. Some people who completely have no acknowledgement of the above may be reluctant to break the rules and steal money or the sort since they don't acknowledge how that can play out in the future to come back and bite them. Some people who aren't mischievous may be depressed and don't see the future and don't see the opportunities that are in store for them. Even if you're not depressed, you might not be thinking about your future job after the one you have or even quitting or getting another one in the first place. You wonder if going the extra mile is worth it when it hasn't really worked out for you in the past. Some people want to invest and some get real successful since they did the "simple thing of waiting 10 years for the company to triple up". But in being a better person, it is only so natural that the good ones also wonder if someone has your back, if your boss cares about you, if politics isn't completely bullshit or not. You know, maybe someone does actually care about you. Maybe your boss really does feel bad that they fired you. Maybe your politician is disappointed in themselves for not making everyone happy

Whether we are a good or bad person, whether we are intellectually spectacular to developing, whether we are happy people or not, everyone has their own level of prospect they put in the future and in others. It is going to sound really reductionist to even myself since I also need to still have more faith in it: you can improve as a person as the person you are now by having an optimistic mindset in which other events in life turn out better if you look for optimism in the people and things you may reasonably have doubts of. Even with the kid and the bible, the kid got a car and had one the whole time. You're not going to get validated for every good and bad thing, and you're not always going to be given a heads up on the best moments in your life. It all comes around someday. Everything that ends up happening will happen, so the best thing to do on a regular basis is getting ready for it. I would consider that a forward thinking optimistic mindset to have, over having doubts of what is going to happen literally within the next few days or so. Though to touch up on this point, maybe what you want is already there and all you gotta do is look for it
