Like What
Life Improvement

Results come from action, action comes from motivation, talent came from practice, but the fundamental source of all of them comes from desire

When I was going to college I started crushing on this one girl in particular towards the end of freshman year and starting then I would work out every day. I enjoy the company of the opposite sex in general and while I did workout throughout my life, I only started to work out heavily starting then. I would go to the gym or try and work out every two or three days, but when I really wanted someone, my workout behavior changed. Motivation came from a strong desire

Everyone likes whatever people in general like, though some people want things more than others or at different times. This notion applies to all forms of motivation. Work ethic doesn't come out of nowhere, it exists when one likes success and wants to be successful. Some people are social, and that didn't come out of the blue either: they like people and want to be around people, so being social is something they developed. Some people want to make music or be artistic, but talent and creativity wasn't handed to them. They heard a song and started to like it or saw some art and found awe in it then thought, "I want to be able to do that." People in general like money but some people want it more than others and work hard to get it. Everyone likes sex, being social, being talented, and having money, but some people crave certain things more than others or more so in one thing than another

When it comes to motivating people, two things that don't work effectively only in and of themselves are morals and intellectual understanding. Sure, they do influence people's behavior and it works well if the person you are dealing with like and enjoy being moral and promoting wisdom. They don't always work as people's behavior otherwise are dictated by their desires. I didn't have much interest in coding at all when I was younger for most of my life, but I was exposed to it so I decided to take a couple classes. I started to like it more with a job I had in that field in the past. And I like it even more because I'm using a nice laptop and I take pleasure in fingering the keys and organizing the architecture of projects. I’m enjoying it more after ascertaining how to get around utilizing the program on hand and found that fascinating on top of allowing the process of learning to be easier. All in all, I wasn't born destined to be a programmer nor had the motivation in it for the longest time. My motivation in learning grew the more interested I was and went up further the more I started to like it and be fascinated by it. The challenge is a thrill. Work ethic isn't magic; it comes from pleasure in rewarding satisfaction. People eventually tend to be good at whatever they like to be doing, whatever that happened to be

I'm not one to tell you what to like, but as an example I know a couple of people who hated math growing up as a kid and liked other academic topics. Pretty cool. Someone doesn't like something, so they didn't end up finding the motivation to immerse themselves in it. This is the fundamental drive that affects a person's mentality: behavior, opinion, and personality came from desire. There is a level of maturity in learning to like things I don’t like right away. I don't like cleaning my room or doing the dishes but I learn to do them anyway to eventually find pleasure in being well-rounded. You don't always want to give in to every whim of like and dislike as we aren’t the best judges in what is best by deriving it from solely how much we immediately like it or not

Someone out there was a kid who saw the TV and spectated professional athletes play then thought, "when I grow up, I want to be just like them." That kid put in the work to be one, with motivation that came from desire. This isn't less relevant to people's behavior in everything else in life. I knew some people who may have had (mild) depression and they wouldn't want things in particular, only to end up with an incomplete mentality as they didn't really want things that bad. I think that is the definition of depression: the feeling of not liking things or wanting it all that bad, resulting in a lack of motivation to continue with life differently or find pleasure in it. It helps in life to have something to care about and enjoy, as the lack of care and desire may be the root cause of depression. Hell, something, anything

Whether you have depression or not, people are defined by what they like. Everything from hobbies and interests, sociability and intellect, to mental health and world outlook are based on what they like and how much they like it. That is your identity. In being a wholesome individual, it helps to have facets of identity that are both internal (character, talent, humor) and external (clothes and tangible nouns in general, profession). People like cars and clothes, and being superficial is common as many people as a matter of fact like being superficial. I'm can't say I'm not either, sorry not sorry

I drank a bit in my life, which stemmed from how much I liked drinking. I like drinking, ergo, I have the motivation to drink (no shit dan). In trying to quit or being told to quit, the morals, intellectual understanding, and medical stipulation only goes so far. One drinks because they like drinking and want to drink, and one quits because they want to quit and like being sober. Part of recovery is not merely not drinking, but finding one's self in wanting to stay sober. Well I'm only two months in so as if I'm the best advocate at being sober, so there's that

Understanding is a fraction of what motivates people to act. If someone acts a way you're not fond of or trying to get them to change, it doesn't help much by explaining to them an essay in hopes of getting them to change or merely suggest to go "do something about it". That doesn't impact people's behavior as what you rather should do is get them to want to change, if possible

Why is someone acting like an asshole? You could have a biographer look into their past, but the final answer is "because they like being one." Or at least, not like not being one good enough. You could reason with them with the goal of getting them to want to change, though just because you talked about fundamental right and wrong doesn't mean they will want to change. People can also change and not want to. Interestingly a lot of good people like the company of bullheads, as it isn't a problem if they want to be around them. Is Gordon Ramsay an asshole on Hell's Kitchen?  Of course he is. Do people want to be close to him? Absolutely. The bottom line wasn't if he was nice or not, it was if his staff wanted to be a part of his crew and if viewers wanted to keep up with what was going on. Again, results and behavior came from motivation, and motivation came from desire

Sometimes it shows what people want within their desires. Everyone wants to have friends, but what they want exactly from the relationship plays out. Some people want to have "best friends forever" and their ideology and standards show from that. Some people want attention, and it shows with how much they might be inattentitave about particular individual needs. Some people want them as an escape from boredom, and focus on having fun with them. Some people want them as an escape from life's stress and pressures, and are content with having them just hanging around. Some people want them for sex, some people want them for professional reasons, though all in all their inner desire of what they want from people mold the expectations of others and how they treat people. Perhaps it’s all of the above. You get what you look for, and you look for what you like and how bad you want it. This also goes for change as well. I like the idea of protecting the atmosphere, but I certainly do not want it enough to refuse to ride a plane

As much as this may make reasonable sense, we don't think about this notion when it doesn't come to the relatively obvious. I used to have a friend who was into indie rock and showed me a cool song, though I stopped liking it for a bit when we parted ways. Didn't like the dude, so I stopped liking whatever he liked. Sure, it wasn't a big deal as it was only one album a long time ago, but people can act like this. Someone hates someone else and end up hating on whatever they like, as maybe it’s too much to like something in common with someone you can't stand. It helps to be detached with the opinions of others lest they affect yours inadvertently. This is where close-mindedness may come from, even in the non-malicious form. I knew a dude who had an alcoholic parent and he didn't really like it. Some kids out there get turned off by alcohol before their first drink. Some kids never seen it as a problem and go wild with it. People can hesitate in being similar to people they can't stand, which can be petty if others are doing something pretty well or fond of something that is undeniably captivating. Some kids have parents they did like, so they liked the things their parents liked too. I think. I often hear "I'm a Pats fan because my Dad was a Pats fan," so there's that. I had a girl say she liked the smell of cigarettes as her dad smoked too, though she said that not because she actually liked the smell of cigarettes, considering her being somewhat apathetic regarding her dad. You can't change people's behavior directly, but if you did it was because you managed to change their desires

If someone is lecturing to you about morals, just face it: they like morals more than they like you. If you want to improve as a person in the real world, you don't get hung up about morals as the number one priority. It's not. It's probably like… number five. Sometimes it does get annoying when people get too infatuated to think properly so while morals are nice to have, it’s like asking for Santa to drop by every year. While having a standard of a sort is important, in the real world it is more practical to be more concerned about people's desires, including your own, than an ambiguity. I am not advocating in being immoral, but rather point out the reality of the world. To have morals and standards and have them with others is called trust. You can and should find and agree on standards on whatever level with whoever you choose, however, forming trust is not an easy thing and nonetheless not easier when it comes to life meaning. Afterall, it is a lot harder to convince others and tell them what to believe in than it is to convince yourself and tell yourself what to believe in

Some people get hung up about double standards and try and shed what people claim they don't like in them or get teased of. When people didn't care much of me, they would straight up say "what the hell, I can't read your handwriting". Maybe it got a little better (just a little, it's still hard to read) over the course of the last decade, though nowadays when people enjoy my company they would say "cool handwriting. It looks like a doctor's." If people like you, they will also like parts of you, including your shitty fucking handwriting. People get teased if they play a lot of video games or act like a mama's boy. When people like you enough they will talk about which series are cool or that it’s sweet of you to get along with your parents. Same games and same parents, though how they viewed that wasn't about which games or which parents, but more of how much they wanted to get along with me or not in the first place. When you see things this way, you learn not to be hung up about the extraneous petty stuff because ditching video games or my parents entirely wouldn't be the way to go. Because it didn't really matter if I did dwell on it. I ain't concerned about if others like online multiplayer or what people think of my family. Maybe I give a shit about my handwriting, but that's a maybe

Fun fact about this site: I wanted to buy a domain and bought one on April 20th a couple years ago. I was at a bar. I just wanted a domain for fun and found a hosting site and came across a few templates and decided to write what was on my mind and it went from there. I kept writing because I started to like it, even if I didn't care much about writing literally my whole life before having this blog
