Maintaining Focus
Life Improvement

People are generally busy. We wake up, do a few things, work this and that, commute and shower, wedge in some recreation, then go to sleep. Day in and day out. However we also "spend time" worrying about things over course of seasons but not really going anywhere with it

I’ve been in jail and rehab a few times and one "pleasant" thing I found out was how I learned to get so sick and tired of having doubts. Sometimes I would be there for a few days and sometimes it'd be for a few weeks reflecting about my life, though around the second day you kind of find out that spending time worrying does in fact go nowhere. With mostly everyone there, we have all these plans of "what I'm gonna do when I get out", between lighting up another joint and making moves in professional careers and all. The planning is a bit more intentional since we have all this time on our hands for starters, but something I also learned is that after a while some of us stop worrying

After spending a while having worries, you learn to get sick and tried of it. Perhaps in everyday life we multitask the act of showering or driving while worrying and working while worrying and having fun while worrying and trying to go to sleep while worrying, but if you actually get locked up (assuming you didn't do something all too bad to go there) and worry for a little bit, you get sick and tired of it and devote your mind to something else. Such as focusing on the future

People say problems go away when you stop thinking about it and while this isn't the most accurate, I will say that worrying can go away when you "stop thinking about it". Worrying is the result of having problems, but problems and worries are two separate things. While there may be a valid cause to the worry, worrying itself goes nowhere. And perhaps as everyday civilians get busy and busier, they do give this and that some thought while seemingly being productive on the outside though I found that it takes a longer length of time of "dedicated worrying" to find out via feeling that it is so useless. Yeah sure, while you drive a car there isn't much to do (or should be doing as no you shouldn't multitask while you drive), but while we don't read books while driving, we do multitask worrying while driving. If you do

Where to go and what to do in life can be confusing and while it can take a few days to a few years to find the resolution in no longer continuing with the wondering, I can only do my best and hope the reader also finds this feeling if they haven't already. It’s easy to say and harder to do, but from me I wish that you will one day discover this new mentality, which will be found after done all the worrying one can possibly ever do and decide to keep doing it no more. Perhaps if you haven't "worried enough" there is still some "worrying left to do", but once you get it all done and over with, life gets easier living

When you have a deadline coming up within your professional life you start to pick up the pace if you haven't already. There may be an assignment or a project that needs to be finished by a certain date and when you're coming up towards the end you go full stream to tie loose ends together. Life problems aren't the same since there is no particular deadline to finish meeting. If you declared a deadline to resolve all your personal issues maybe you'll start to give it some final thoughts, but other than that there is not much to pressure someone to get around to all their doubts

Not all doubts are your fault. Sometimes you feel bad you disappointed someone you like or let down some nice kid and all, but after a while you may get so done with worrying about disappointing people. Yeah well, I'm sure my old boss or my old friends might be hearing about me one day and would like to hear how grown up I got between then and now, but fuck goddamn you know, it's complicated how life panned out. If you're a good person who does feel bad about letting people down, it's ideal to keep a soul and all, but after a while you won't be able to please everyone 

Good talk so far so let's put this in practice: when you have an argument with someone who doesn't like you, you could prove them wrong. This is a common issue within everyday life, and proving them wrong is one way to go about it. It isn't the prettiest and it can work, but one thing that I found out is that it’s more effective to prove yourself right. When you go out to prove other people wrong, you can create a more bitter enemy in the process and perhaps trampled someone's feelings, or left them not willing to continue on regarding a handful of things. You can reason with them logically or run the bases around them emotionally, but it's not the best of conclusions. Rather, you could prove yourself right with the same tactics such as rationality or comfort. When you prove yourself right, you might be more focused on showing them the way you live your life, the way you go about things, the humor you exhibit, and the pleasure of simply being around you. One thing I learned is that most arguments never actually come to a final conclusion outside a strictly professional setting. You know, if your parents or friends or coworkers are difficult, there hardly is one single event to end all discussions. The best thing you can do with an argument is to leave the argument in better condition then you entered it in. Yes, sometimes you might need to be hyper-assertive when the situation calls for it on the rarest of occasions, but in a world where most arguments don't actually finish, it is best to make your case in the best form possible and present yourself as the person you want to be came across so you make progress within conflict if you so choose to go about exercising diplomacy

You will need to do both of these things all things considered, but if you live a life solely based on the goal of proving other people wrong, you are fixated on other people's image of you and argue your way into changing that. The doubts and worry you have of yourself you want to address by imagining the perception people have of you and showing to them why it should be changed. When you live a life when you don't have as much worry or doubt, you aren't as obsessed with other people's perception of you, but focus on the image you have of yourself and building that up and showing that off. When you start to invest less time in worrying and having doubts, you spend more time and energy towards focusing on the qualities of yourself at the present moment and who you want to seen as in the future

Throughout life, you're always going to have something on your mind stressing you out. You can for one, get situations thrown at you and worry of things as they come to you, or you can choose what in particular to be worrying about. If there is a small petty issue that bothers you, you could instead find a bigger goal or issue to be tackling on by choice and choose to be stressed out about that instead. Working out is one of them, but there are a lot of things you can choose to be stressed of. When you go out and intentionally choose what in particular you want to worry yourself, you will dedicate more focus on what is indeed important to be concerned about and feel more in control of your life
