Managing Expectations
Life Improvement

It is moral to set rules and talk about what should be done though not everyone including you nor I will follow all guidelines. Some people can be hypocritical when the situation tilts towards a certain direction (what do), but to gain insight in navigating through the situations and people life provides ever so often, it is important to manage expectations. What should be done is an ideological matter while what could be done concerns the mentality of a forward thinking individual

As a personal internal therapeutic remedy it helps to manage expectations. It can be easy to lower expectations of yourself by making up excuses in not going the extra mile and sleep in or stay up and lollygag another hour or so or let some friend down and all. We can however be stubborn in the expectations we have of others and for some of us we are told to lower our expectations of them. Maybe we are truly a good person and it shouldn't be that someone steals your lover and all. Maybe we are a manager of some business and with the payroll at hand wished to hire better qualified recruits because you think the business should have better people. So maybe… lower your expectations a little bit if needed. Yes, it is important to set expectations to begin with since people should have healthy relationships and no manager ought to be hiring just about anybody, but people do say that happiness is the difference between expectation and reality so on a personal level you could work on healthy relationships and rebound quickly after they may go sour. Or maybe as a manager do some team building etc yadda yadda yadda

It can also be a reason why perfectionists aren't the best of people as a perfectionist can have too high expectations to be compatible with others. For example, if I have a friend who is a musician and a friend who is an athlete and a friend who is a chef, I would ideally at a party have the musician make a music playlist with the athlete putting together some tournament cheer and the chef helping out with food (as a pure hypothetical, one of those "do not try this in real life") and not have the chef plan game-day related festivities and the musician cook up cuisine. This example is an exaggerated case in which people either were or were not exercising the skills they were good at. It is through the managing of expectations in which everyone benefited. In real life you wouldn't expect your parents to literally be God and maybe as a kid went "I wish I was never born!" as if your parents are literally God who gave life to you and brought into your life all the pain that existed as well. Maybe even as a teacher or a parent you have this idea that children should be obedient but even if I sat down with you and agreed with you there isn't much to gain in knowing and finding agreement that it should be that children act as perfect pretty little angels. Understanding the discrepancy between expectation and reality by legitimately recognizing the existence of the differences and their merits also helps flourish your association with people. We have these expectations of friends from TV and movies and maybe the darker ones are spicy though we may have expectations that friends and coworkers are blood siblings and all. It can and it does on occasion, but first and foremost, manage your expectations

Having baby steps can be a way. Part of managing expectations starts with understanding the kind of person people are and the situations that can influence their attitude. Without being too terrible of a person there is a quick way of turning people off by asking too much of them. Seriously, who likes to hang around the kind of people who want too much out of others. With expectations, also knowing other people’s goals and desires and their imperfections can bring you closer to them. Maybe someone wishes they were smarter in life. Could help to teach them a few tricks. I did this a bit in life and it’s one reason people got interested in me. Maybe they're nerdy, which is something I am somewhat. Everyone including myself forget that often (don't even know what that even means at this point in life). Sometimes when you or I have expectations set in the wrong place we just look at them and say "no sorry" and just keep walking more often than necessary. It's an extension of "knowing how to play the cards you're dealt with" as the cards aren't simply the life you have, but the lives other people have as well. After a while (hopefully) we understand the cards that we are dealt with in life and find options in which we get the most out of them, but applying this concept in the perspective of others can help you personally too. It’s a balancing act I can't summarize in a single article advising you to establish expectations of everyone and maintaining those expectations no matter who crosses the line so you have a backbone and stay sane, setting expectations higher ever so slightly in the upwards direction and not downwards as life goes on to avoid pessimism, not setting them too high on others to be a perfectionist stuck-up, allowing flexibility in expectation so you are truly a person who is listening, while - most importantly - finessing the expectations you have of yourself. The analogy of knowing how to play your cards right can be beneficial for everyone involved

Throughout life I found very little to come out of wondering what “should” be and made progress in what could come out of it. What you could do can help you think about the possibilities and eventually, what you do and did altogether
