Market Price
Amateur Philosophy

The best things in life are free

It goes without saying that a fulfilled life definitely does require some resources in facilitating the acquisition of property and the opportunity for pleasure, though after a certain level of materialism, one is more well rounded in finding values that don't have to do with mere possessions. One abstract we value is time. Time is sort of a possession, as we say things like "time is money and money is time" and use our ability to convert time into money with earnest work and use our resources to enjoy our time. We might also find the value in a lifestyle. While it is nice to have everything, we might start to enjoy a life in which all the stress of everything all added up was as manageable as possible. Perhaps we would rather take on a simpler position than take a promotion if we think the responsibility isn’t worth the money. It is admirable to take on a position of leadership, but if we were frank, if it isn't worth the money or the stress that comes with, we might be willing to pass up on it. Sure, logistically speaking it pays the best to be a tycoon, but if it's not something that interests you all that much then that’s that. There's another saying along the lines of "more money, more problems" so on a person to person basis it varies how much money you are willing to go after given how many problems that go with. That's reasonable enough

We can bypass the conversation regarding a realistic life we all live in where life values outside the societal rat race have meaning. If you wanted to know what this would have talked about, it would be along the lines of "people are a resource (too)", "don't forget to smell the flowers", and "a healthy life is a good life". I'm sure there's a lot to it. We can pick up on some professional tidbits and some life-hacks with seduction techniques and all, and while it does us better in being able to be better at things in general, advice ultimately revolves around getting more out of things for less. That is, overall, an important fundamental of "good" advice. Whatever ways that help you achieve longer professional strides, accomplish tasks quicker, and be seen as more likeable are being asked by everyone and taught by many

There is a mental mechanism that people consider when thinking about these things, being that the baseline of what we value and how we value it derived from materialism. We are aware of materialism and build things or work for money, or we altogether throw it out the window when talking about things that don't have to do with that such as friendship and entertainment of the sort, with some level of spiritualism or culture. Though from me, the way we reason as these two entities being opposite of each other isn't necessary in the way we view such things. Since our baseline of value is "possession" and economics and we think life traits are either part of that or not, we think that something such as career aptitude to be in one group and things outside that such as getting lit and throwing a party with the best subwoofer capable of shake people's bodies to be in a different category then conclude that "we should be balanced out in working out both of these needs"

However, if we keep the economics of happiness casually in all things, then philosophically speaking the best things in life are free. Not that I took a list and found things that are "really cool" and found out they don’t "cost money"- since I'm not going that route as valid as it could be -  but if we pondered the definition of what is good or better, established that "whatever gets you more for less is better", then by definition, the "best" things in life are things that costed nothing. If we took ambiguous points and said that a car provides one hundred pleasure points and costed you ten resources, then we would think about how valuable those one hundred pleasure points were and how much ten resources means to us. However, anything that gives any level of good for zero resource has (mathematically) infinite more returns. Therefore, the best things in life are free
