
Microwave Minute
Amateur Philosophy

The definition of a second is the time it takes for a cesium atom to oscillate its energy dynamics 9,192,631,770 times. More details on Wikipedia if you are interested. Since lengths of years change, people came up with an exact way to measure time

I like wearing headphones, listening to some upbeat music when I work out at the gym, and when I work I find focus at the library or the café (or the bar). It might seem to someone who is hyper-skeptical why the thoroughness of my workout has more than just the weights in the room or how my work isn't just contingent on the laptop or books in front of me, but there is the environment of where and when I am doing it that does make a difference in the quality of doing those things

Devil's Advocate: Hey dude, its nice seeing you seeming to try to understand and explain the vagueness of truth and on paper it sounds nice to agree, but there are things that definitely do indeed make me clearly feel about a matter and I do know everything there is to the matter  

Yeah, in being vague I could say "we can agree to disagree" but to be specific I will say "no you don't." Since perhaps you have kids the way you treat life is different from mine or since you might have a different profession and culture we see blaring difference. Someone who thought about it might think that they’re the root causes in the perception of things. And to debunk this fallacy is to show the reader our perception of something we all have in common independent of other people, which is time. Time you can measure definitively

Time to time I see something I used to like as a kid and chuckle at the thought of ever having liked it. Not even just as a kid since for a few years I was obsessed with my necklace and crucifix piece and always had it on me and treasured it. I don't have one at the moment but it is interesting knowing a time when I felt naked (more naked than actually nude) not having it there and did keep it on me since it felt weird not wearing it. Saying it how it is, it was a feeling I knew that was peculiar though I no longer feel that way anymore

I used to hit the gym six to seven times a week and not so much anymore. I could blame this current viral pandemic to the way it is but it was that way for a while even before that. We are all creatures of habit to a sort. There are habits I had not even too long ago I don't have now, and when you do or don't do something for long enough it also becomes habitual. Beyond just doing things but feeling things became somewhat of a habit. Seems easy to say and harder to apply and maybe there is a world of advice that includes "just do it"

For better or worse it matters how words or pictures were painted since it is better to say "I don't like the things you do" over "get your fucking shit together" and it might be ideal to play music at a party that people typically enjoy over screeching chaos, although there are quite a few cases for the latter in both regards. Though with the benefit of all things with nuances uniquely offering variety to life, time is quite simple and even that we can't always sit down and convince ourselves how that feels. Beyond merely age and the fact that time flies, especially when you’re having fun, is how time feels so differently all the time with a lot of things

Such as the Microwave Minute. The microwave minute is the concept that those 60 seconds in waiting to heat up food in a microwave is the longest 60 seconds of your life. I can feel a lot of things regarding 60 seconds, such as the 60 seconds I sat and stopped typing and the 60 seconds it took me to flip an email or the 5 minutes it takes me to take a shower or the half hour it takes to go to work or the day it takes in being there, but the Microwave Minute seems so long for something that is indeed kind of that short

Wow my friend does some of the dumbest shit sometimes and this prof isn't much fun at all and yeah, for talking about how I could justify that and probably still end up later next week feeling something about anything with good certainty, it’s not like the shit we feel at the microwave for 60 seconds isn't kind of annoying too. I'm sure we all more or less found the human capacity in dealing with this but you ought to give me a little of the benefit of the doubt you do it too. Even in LA if you have a green light and you don't start moving in .5 seconds the car behind you will honk at you to get moving and up here in Seattle if you are holding traffic at a green light you will have the intersection all to yourself for a good 4 seconds. Though I never actually intentionally experimented how long I can sit there and not be honked at but from what I seen, you get the idea. Beyond patience being a virtue, tolerance is a good one to have. Being tolerant and like before, flexible with shortcomings does you good though if you sat at a green light I would honk at you in 1.5 seconds even if I wasn't in your lane being held up by you. But that’s just me

When you anticipate something in the future, those days seem long and when you’re on a vacation those days seem too short. They're all 24 hours all the same. There will always be a whole lot to people such as yourself and I, but there won't be much to time. And perhaps there is some doubt in how we have fleeting feelings about the things we have and the things we want and the way we feel of the characteristics that come with, but there won't be any characteristics to time, outside the fact that a cesium atom makes 9,192,631,770 oscillation with its state per second. Our instincts is what makes us human and for hopefully a lot of us we have a covetable mentality of it, but our instincts will fail us in explaining to ourselves why we feel so differently about the Microwave Minute than all other minutes

All that we do realize about time concerns less about time or the length of time but what was going on in that time. It is the context of waiting for a microwave that made time feel long and how listening to music makes working out fun, and how being pleased makes time go by faster. When I am at a trail gone hiking to a sort I would say hi and smile to most people I saw and crossed paths with, but put me in the city and I would ignore a lot of people downtown. People out in the woods do enjoy feeling company and return the favor more often than not. Once I was at Trader Joe's and I asked some lady where the aluminum foil was and she barked at me "do you think I work here?!" and I was like "shit sorry just asking a (fucking) question.” And it wasn't even a dumb one since Trader Joe's does not indeed carry aluminum foil. I still find that kind of interesting. I am sure it’s the same old me and the same old them, but damn do people act a way. Man, the Microwave Minute was just a minute and that other question was just a question

Not as if I was guilty of less for ever having (had, having had, having? having) stellar angelic voices and thoughts (fuck you too), and sure I pride myself in the reality of being clear about expectations and how I feel about not seeing it, there comes to a point that for all I did feel a way outside the kitchen, I ain’t got anything to get on with with a microwave. If a microwave had AI and feelings I'm sure it would say dude what the hell is your deal when I am doing exactly what you told me to do

I, like everyone else, do feel that I have my own right to opinion and self esteem, but all things considered beyond a vague generality that "no one is perfect" is also a bit of an understanding that human nature wasn’t all that great in the first place. Could be. I am not gonna wash it all away and say that the brand of cereal matters just as much as a good handshake, but you know, it could be. “Could” being the operative word. It could be that people, including us, are fucky as hell

It could be that bullshit that came your way had nothing to do with you. It could be that you thought you didn't get what you want for some specific reason but the actual reason was something you didn't think about. It could be that your next boss is going to piss you off more than your current one. It could be that you may feel too attached to something or someone and it could be that you believe in something too much. It could be that you don't care enough. And for all the ways we could understand more, we know all there is to ever know about the Microwave Minute and we still got ways to go in understanding how the mind that made this feeling makes all the other feelings as well

And if you want to be a smart-alec about it, then I guess we can talk about what exactly an "unperturbed ground-state hyperfine transition frequency" is, but I think we have enough to go off of

