Minimizing Waste
Amateur Philosophy

One thing people can't stand is to see something go to waste

If you know of someone who has a real nice car and did not do much with it other than park it in their driveway, you would think that would be a shame. Why would or how could someone who has a nice car not drive it around and just leave it there? While people would initially say that few are obligated to particularly drive a certain number of miles given any circumstance, we would somewhat find it odd if a desirable car idly wasn’t "doing what it is supposed to do". You could like the owner or dislike the owner on a personal level, but either way if you saw a car that was hardly used, you would find that amiss even though that has nothing to do with you 

The notion that nice things should be economized to its fullest extent complicates morals, life meaning, and worldview. Most people have a general sense of an easy going mindset as a default that added on other goals and obligations, though we feel it out of place whenever something is not used to its greatest potential. Philosophically, this is known as utilitarianism: a lot of things provide good in life - also known as utility - and maximizing utility for yourself and / or for others is the proper thing to do. This has an ideal objective that is only so natural

It seems like such a waste to go to a nice buffet and not eat as much as you can. It seems like such a waste to have a good couple of days for a weekend and not do much with it. It seems like such a waste to see the years go by. It seems like such a waste to buy a pizza and only eat half of it and chuck the rest in the compost. It seems like such a waste to have a boss that isn't doing everything possible to promote the company. It seems like such a waste to have a friend who isn't doing everything they can do to make you feel nice when they could

While this is a natural feeling to have, why should it be so? For starters, being economic is a reasonable way to live life; that is, to get the most out of things for the lowest price. However, the need to get the most out of everything, no matter how relatively easy it can be, puts pressure and personal obligation on an individual including expectations of others that may not be the most justified or achievable

Let me start with a simple question: are you obligated to look after everyone and each of their individual problems? Sometimes yes, other times no. To rattle off some obvious examples, you are not responsible for other people's relationships and addictions, though while it can make you a noble person to shoulder a sense of responsibility of other people's well-being, you aren't obligated to and at times would be better off not budging in. When we see this to be a reality, we can start to see that other people are not responsible for us in the same light. It takes a bit of understanding of the way we view people and how that is also applied to us, which does dismiss an idealistic view of society as pessimistic as this can seem. However, it takes a bit of selflessness and confession of narcissism to face the reality that we can't expect of others more than what others expect of us. Yes, in a professional workplace to a sports team everyone might be looking after the good-will of others but between random strangers it sometimes won't be so, and expanding the group expectation between friends to society as a whole is not going to completely work, as nice as that seems even to me

If we do in fact accept that no one is completely responsible for the well-being of others and others aren't responsible for the well-being of that individual beyond a simple humane sense, we would still find that difficult to completely settle with. And the reason why is because we are seeing something go to waste. It seems like such a waste to see society so capable of accomplishing feats of fascinating magnitude to conclude that they expect not too much out of people

But let's put professionalism and politics aside for a bit. There is a reason some girls don't like video games and it is beyond "they seem to be for losers": the reason why a lot of girls don't like video games is because they don't like it when their man is doing something else other than give them attention and love. I knew a girl who talked about how her boyfriend would play Starcraft often, and it’s s not like she was talking about a random dude she was looking down on, she was talking about her own boyfriend who she apparently liked (not that I knew or cared too much. He was ranked Master level so it's not like he was in fact merely mediocre at it. I may have played him once, but I forget). It irked her that he was doing something else than what she would like to see him do. They would like their men to give them attention, be productive in their own personal life or have ambition, but they don't like seeing a guy choosing to do none of the above and of all the things they could be doing, just dicking around playing video games. They might think "what the fuck" since it is to them, such a waste of how to be spending one's time, even more so when they do care about you

Then as a guy we are thinking "why do you care so much" to "let me do whatever for a little bit when I feel like it" to "holy shit let me be" and a little bit of "wow why is she hating on something that's kinda fun time to time anyway". It really comes down to her not liking to see something go to waste. Beyond girls and video games, I don't like seeing my own friends and family let their time go to waste too, whether it be not being productive enough or not caring enough or letting the years go by without progressing in life. I also have these ideas towards myself too. Perhaps when I think about the years that went by, I have this feeling that I could have done a little more than I already did. Perhaps that's why we set new year's resolutions to begin with: the goal that we don't want to keep seeing years go to waste. And as this is a universal notion, realize that everyone feels this way

Maximizing utility can turn into greed on top of regret. Being stingy with money and kindness can make you an asshole, cutting corners and taking shortcuts can make you look like a sleaze. Having to gain as much attention as possible and having to be better than everyone else can make you arrogant or inconsiderate. The need to have as many friends as possible can turn you shallow, and the necessity to be a perfectionist can alienate people. Of course, it is absurd to be a completely lazy person and not show gratitude or good-will when easily possible. Yes, people won't change if you don't have expectations of them and indeed having some unrealistic ideals is necessary if there ever is hope of getting any degree closer to it. Though it isn't going to benefit anyone, including yourself, when any form of waste is seen as a negative thing. This includes even when there are better alternatives as you can be seen as a social ladder climber if you do this too much. Too much focus can be counterproductive as people on average are better at proofreading their writing if they take a break between writing and revising it, as much as it seems like it’s the most productive to be able to write it then revise it right away before publishing it. While this holds true for writing, this applies to pretty much a lot of other things, including creativity, curiosity, and adventure

The need for maximization is a natural feeling altogether, though the need to have vacations away from the professional workplace is nonetheless important in a personal sense. It isn't strictly a good or bad thing to want the most out of everything; just be aware of this notion to exist in people's behavior, including your own

For starters, I started to want to learn how to code years ago and picked it up again. Throughout the years, the level in which I wanted to study went up and down depending on my other ambitions and extraneous events, though whenever I got a new laptop the desire to code went up again. And this makes sense as it seems to me, a waste to have a computer and not do everything I can with it. For all the commercials you see of people showing how nice a laptop is and all the things you can do with it, it seems to be a waste of a nice laptop to not do much with it. Perhaps this natural feeling is a good motivator if you want ambition. It seems like a waste of a laptop to not get the most out of it. Not only does it shame me in being lazy but it makes the process of studying to be less of a chore and more of an enjoyable recreation
