More or Less
Life Improvement

  

The less hard you try the easier a lot of things end up being

Trying, putting energy and effort into a goal obviously is done for the accomplishment of achieving things though with no matter how lucrative getting things are, the inner attachment that is coupled with the effort that was put into a goal is kept with a person. There are kids who want to get perfect marks and end up acquiring some of the objectively lucrative professions, but with strong desire - not just simply strong in a sense of intensity but strong in a way that it was just that and nothing else - the mentality of whatever work that was put in the process might become emotionally strenuous. Even for dating and the sort if you do have the mentality that you need to win over one particular girl and that had to happen, then you'd be sweating baseballs when you try and approach her

There isn't much particularly wrong on paper to want to be the valedictorian who had the dream girl that you always had to had, but wanting things too much forces a person to struggle with the complications that come in getting there more to a degree than is absolutely necessary. Even with my parents we fight quite a bit though there is a deeper compelling imperative that "we work through everything so we are completely in sync with each other”. For even having that desire we all do stress and blow up at each other quite a bit more in comparison to some families who are content with not really having to be the best of friends or the sort. The more I try to want to work things out, emotions based on goodwill turn into frustration and desperation then maybe even towards feelings of anger and apathy

Assuming you are the kind of person who normally wants things and is going through the motions of life when things don't always work out when they should, Buddhism sounds nice: the idea of not wanting things in general and having found enlightenment in giving up any form of desire. If that works it does in an emotionally symptomatic sense that the emotionally attached feelings of having had desires won't be there any more if you don't have desires in the first place. Though of course, continuing and moving along in life does still require the motivation to want to work for things but the issue isn't having goals or having extravagant goals or liking things that can take a toll, rather it’s the personal mentality attached in how much you want those things and letting that affect your own happiness and how that influences the way you view your life and the life of others

In trying to make a comparison about this, it would be like a cannon in the industrial age: even with cannons a few would blow up when lit at the spot because the soldiers who manned the artillery put too much powder or didn't configure the shot properly and of course if you don't have any gunpowder in it at all then I'm sure you won't be able to line up a shot in the first place. And it would be the same perhaps with motivation and desire. You do need to have motivation and desires since life isn't always going to be some kind of birthday party in which people just hand you things, but as with gunpowder you do need to make sure whatever fuels your life and actions and strides is still put together all in the right ways. Long time ago while I used to be a line cook I would be stressed out for every little mistake I made and cussed at myself for making blunders but working hard and wanting to be good at one's job didn't also have to mean that I would be too tough on myself to enjoy the experience as much I could have when I was focused on the things that didn't make me happy

It should go without saying that anyone would say that they would want more of a good thing than have less of it but having more didn't mean that there aren’t strings attached to it. All that pleasure comes from is the quality of life and it is the goal of improving the quality of life we do chase after, but what this looks like may not have been too clear with people on how this is done since we might say "money doesn’t matter" or "bros before hoes / chicks before dicks" as some easy way of saying what ought to be sought. An easy example would be clothes and appearances: the better you dress and the better you maintain yourself, the more receptive people might be. It shouldn't be the ultimate debate whether or not clothes are superficial as they're just some ever changing soulless attributes of the current fashion trend, but they are a part of opening the door to improving your quality of life. Clothing itself is not something that gives life meaning, but it allows you to find the door in which you may be exposed to coming across experiences in which you find whatever meaning life gives you. And for a lot of other things, a diploma or a job wasn't the end all of what gave your life meaning, but was another tool in which you took something "meaningless" to find a door in which you experience the life you live

Ideally you should define for yourself who you are and define what the things you have mean to you over letting others define that for you. And maybe it shouldn't be some easy kind of "some of you will be musicians and some will be architects and all of you will be different and as long as you do what you like, life will be good" since even if you defined for yourself what in particular you wanted as an individual, one would still need to define what that itself meant to you. And hard to argue out of is the desire of things that should be good as a given, such as fairness and trust and kindness. As if you know, with the first job you get you end up venting about how "my boss is a huge fucking asshole" as if the idea of a good job also had to entail having a nice boss as if I don’t like it when "my parents are tough on me." An ambiguous of a sort to what is by definition "ideal" and all. Because ideally I would like to drive a million dollar Maserati but won't be dismayed if I don't. So for all the things that we want in general or in particular all uniquely different and universally the same, the quality of the mind in working for and even having those things is also right then and there a part of the quality of life

Even with playing songs on an instrument of a sort you would find a piece that has fast tempo and you would want to be able to play it, but without absolute perfection of a sort the song would sound nicer if you played it slowly with ease than to play it to the speed that it should be if it sounds choppy with mistakes and errors. And perhaps this mentality should also be kept with us in wanting to accomplish whatever we want to do, in wanting things in an intense form of a sort to give us enough determination to be accomplished but still soft enough that the process itself doesn't cost personal burden on ourselves or on others. And as for the ultimate goal of wanting the most possible, the less you want things the better the quality of the way you act, and it is having that quality that allows you to make longer strides. You know, if you drive a stick shift you might go up a gear or two but not to the highest right away. Though on the flip-side there are often too many times a girl will not like you anymore because you didn't like her as much as she wanted you to, so there shouldn't always be a mentality stuck in "I always just kinda care" since a lot of situations will be missed if someone or someplace did want to feel of being strongly desired. Less is more, not that "less" itself was somehow equivalent to "more", but the overall mentality of demanding less, wanting less, and stressing less on yourself is how you get "more" out of life

There will always be a give and take between what to sacrifice for something else. Sometimes you would have to sacrifice some ideal quality so that you get something else better in turn for it. Even with the Yankees to a sort, their managers would be tough on the players and not even give the slightest feeling of gratitude for even winning games and did make a clubhouse that did or still does, not allow the feeling of pleasure because their ultimate value was winning, and that feeling of pleasure was more important than being treated like a friend. So for all talked about so far in being comfortable with yourself and especially with the mind, the feeling of toughness forgoed a few ideal attributes of a buddy-buddy clubhouse… though while it is an example of the exception, you can only really say that because they were all Major League to begin with. Even for being on one of the best baseball teams today, a few players do want to be traded to a different team that doesn't have the same winning record so that they would be able to get more playing time on the field. So what is it to be a good coach to make the best winning teams? There are different ways to get there, but even so, what does it mean to an individual player to even be on the winningest team? And perhaps it will be true about life that everything is good in moderation since life is a journey and the grass is always greener on the other side - but overall - trying to measure everything like we would measure the amount of milk when we make cookies wasn't the way to look at things in the first place

"On a scale of 1-10 how blah blah blah are you feeling right now?" It should be less about putting a number on things quantitatively that is indeed important in maximizing this value, but ultimately not being hung up about the numbers end of things in the first place so that the "numbers" and all do follow. Even with working out you would weight yourself on the scale and keep track of how much weight you lost or gained but standing on the scale isn't going to make it any different for the time being. Success in any form, professionally to casually and medically indeed at the end of the day somehow will be given some attribute value, but the way getting there all too often can be slowed down by doing too much. If I don't like something, it makes me more unhappy the more I think about it, the more I feel like I need something the harder it seems to get, and the more I put too many stipulations on things the more complex it becomes to the point of having exhausted too much energy in the process to have left over in enjoying them 

Not everyone can do everything and no one is going to have it all, so in finding what matters to you and is to be valued is the devotion towards people and goals that is more meaningful than simply how it looks to you and others. There are a lot of attributes and values that will conflict, but what matters the most is not being concerned about how much you have of something but how rewarding the feeling is, and even more so, putting quality first. It isn't about how much money you have but what you think money will do for you, it is less about who you are friends with but what your friends mean to you, and it is less about what you are good at than how proud you are of yourself for being able to do that. And above all, the feeling that stops you from appreciating things and being satisfied as much as possible comes from being fixated too much in any light and allow it to take over and dictate your quality of a person

Things more or less are what they are, and things probably changed because you did
