New Phone
Amateur Philosophy

Normality is anything and everything that we don't think about too much

Taking things for granted seems to be a characteristic exhibited by those who are ungrateful, and while it can be it doesn't always then mean that anyone who does it is an immoral person. To claim that doing so is negligent of morals, we would then expect someone who is grateful for what they have to think and act like such. But what would that look like? The moment I wake up do I need to celebrate that my phone got a full charge after a night of sleep? Do I need to jump up and down and thank my boss every day at work for hiring me quarter before and giving me a job? Do I need to throw a party because I placed money on a sports game and took away five fold what I put in even though that happened two seasons ago? If we came up with a construct of a truly grateful person, they can look like they were born yesterday with their unrealistic enthusiasm if they were not a literal child 

Let us consider the Superbowl of the sort. My team wins. That's really cool. I still think that particular season's end was spectacular from then on out, though as impressive as that is I'm not going to spend tomorrow thinking about it the way I did the day of. Pure logic can't tell us why; if we made a robot that was programmed to have a personality depending on x Superbowl wins and y Conference Championships, then it would look like a lunatic. If Siri said "Seahawks won! Wooo!" every day and had enthusiasm literally every single freaking day and never stopped then you would go out of your way in wondering how to uninstall it to get it to shut up. Gratefulness can't be understood with pure logic alone. The reason why feelings change is because the day after, we as Seahawks fan have this feeling we are just starting to get used to and as time goes on it becomes mentally baked into how things are. Cool, Seahawks won before. Seahawks, as things once recently stood, were regarded as a Superbowl team. That once became our normality. It wasn't yet registered as a part of normality immediately the day after as it was a rather new event we had to process, but as time goes on we slowly brush it off casually as something that happened. Our abstract view of the concrete notions of the world takes time to embed ideas that are relatively new to our concept of normality. We consider an abstract thing called "the world of normality" with changed put in it, only to still be all the same "the world of normality"

Change is an alteration of normality. Though it looks differently change after change, normality conceptually is what it is. Change in an unfortunate form might call us to let go and move on. If there were adverse events that happended, after a time it is best to accept that as a part of normality and continue with that. If Siri was still celebrating that the Seahawks won then went sad emoji because America didn't win the World Cup a particular year even still (like anyone I know cried over it), then we would be trying to tell her to get a grip on herself. All lasting events, good and bad, eventually do slowly become a part of one’s normality. Of course, make change happen if need be, but normality coming back to itself mostly keeps us sane. Not to circumvent the entire benefit of being thankful as a whole, there is a practical emotional mechanism in why we take things for granted

The main topic at hand is that the idea of normality (not the description of it) is a view that does not change. It is the mundane and potentially boring view of the "same old" in life, though its constituents can be individually impressive. Yes, if on a normal basis we had a thrilling lifestyle we would take pleasure in it though we think of it less consciously the more normal we consider it to be. Intentionally or unintentionally acting like a kid even as an adult can be pretty cool though: if you saw a friend and got happy as if you both just hit the jackpot even if there was nothing going on, I'm sure they would enjoy the feeling. This applies to strangers too. If you got slightly excited to meet someone as if they were your friend, then it's probably more likely you end up making one. Sometimes it's for the better if you act like a kid on occasion because you don't want to always be the kind of person who's too cool to be alive because nothing in life can impress you

This kid like mentality, the excitement of the new, is a natural reflex. A kid doesn’t know much of the world and finds discovery of things that were always there, though even as adults we don’t find any less pleasure in discovery or intrigue of the deviance from the norm. It varies time to time though

Some of my favorite shows have badass grandparents. Rick from Rick and Morty is a pretty cool dude. He's a grandpa who lives with his daughter's family and has these crazy episodes with his grandson Morty. Beyond being a kickass who talks shit straight and kind of being a dick while also an alcoholic, I think his character is more cool because he is a grandfather. There are many shows that aren't as recognized that have cartoony futuristic sci-fi and there are a lot of shows with alcoholics, but Rick's character is more impressive because he is a grandfather on top of the aforementioned (Naruto has Tsunade and Jiraiya, and they’re real cool grandparents as well). Malory from the show Archer is a grandma and she is also an alcoholic who acts like a brute. Robert Freeman in The Boondocks is one helluva dude and he’s a grandpa to his two grandsons who aren’t any less entertaining. Outside animation there is Frank Reynolds from It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia who is also a grandfather (and … yet another alcoholic though I think he drinks the least of the people in that crew). If we replaced all those characters with someone younger, I doubt that it would have the same effect

Reason this article states why is because we have the view that grandparents are these old slow boring people who don't know how to use the internet, but if we do find them to be reckless and act young it is more intriguing than we would expect. We have a concept of normality. That concept of normality traditionally includes old people being boring slow and unaware, and if we find a deviation from the norm we find interest in that. Unless you’re the kind of person who hates people but that's just me. We can also draw parallels in Fifty Shades of Grey: it’s a big hit, probably because we have this impression that books are boring and dull but find it intriguing when a book is everything we wouldn't expect a book to be. There is the whole entire internet with a mountain's worth of pornography, and going that route is the same as we didn't expect a porno to be a book. There is a lot of porn out there and there are a lot of books out there, but there aren't a whole lot of pornos that are also books, but I digress

Whenever I get a new phone or laptop or friend or job, I often think "shit this is cool and fun." Or when I find a new song or come up with a new topic of writing. We drink and do drugs because this too is a deviation from normality. Sober life can be boring or I finally started to drink and all. I had a friend in rehab say that she used to think a handful of things were the shit "just to find out that it wasn't all that". We often don’t like spoilers since we want to discover the ending for ourselves. I've started to be sober recently and I like it. The reason why might be because I'm enjoying a feeling different from the old normality of regular drinking. Drinking and being sober in and of themselves conceptually won't change, though what is changing is my view of normality that has to do with drinking

It is the thrill of finding something or the chase after someone that makes life fun. The changing nature is the focus of our mental train of thought, as everything else will be seen as "life as it is". People who don't live the lives we have may look at us and have an opinion of it from an outside perspective however, but while everyone has different views of particular topics of discussion, everyone posseses the same default attitude towards normality
