No... Thank You
Life Improvement

Being thankful is a virtue because we as human beings always want the answer in the affirmative and when we get rejected or meet failure we think that "it’s disappointing" and yeah, it probably is

People say that failure is a part of success. To a degree of certainty, yes it is. If you work for something specific and it doesn't work out, that is by definition, failure. But the opposite of success isn't failure. The opposite of success is sheer laziness. So when we think that failure is one of the worst feelings in the world to have, that is incorrect since the even more worse feeling to have is not having had tried which we know is worse indeed than having had tried, but it seems nice to be kinda there instead of meeting "failure"

Not like I had one of the worst Thanksgivings ever in my life a few years ago when the police showed up since we started fighting. Time to time I see them and I do ask "yeah so how is it around these times?" and sometimes they say "well everyone is enjoying the sun, but we get more burglaries and break-in’s since people are on vacation" and during the holidays they say "well we get more DVs and the sort". So there's that. Thank god we weren't like the only family to fight on thanksgiving

We think about the things we wish for and are grateful for, always knowing we could have more in life than we already do. Anyone could want that. Though when we help people, the one thing we kinda do want in return in seeing a bit of a "thank you", because between a friend to another friend or a boss to an employee or an employee to a boss or a stranger to another stranger, it doesn't really matter who you are or who they are: if you kinda don’t get a little bit of a personal gratitude then they might not want to help you again. It’s one of the smallest things I kinda did found out about people: you could be however you are, but feeling worthwhile is what people are looking for

If feeling worthwhile was the paycheck, then there's that. If feeling worthwhile was the camaraderie, there’s that too. People aren't "selfish", people like having been felt that who they are and what they do for people was worthwhile to others. So with being thankful, while you are thinking about how much you want to have another millions or billions of dollars and a second car or 5th yacht or just even a job to begin with, thanksgiving is not for you. Thanksgiving is for other people

Being a thankful person is not for you to think about so you can "think about what you do have in life" although you should do that, being a thankful person is a virtue in which you let people know that you value who they are as a person and you appreciate that. And that feeling you give to others so that they can also appreciate you as a person as well

I had or seen a handful of jobs in which people didn't feel thanked enough. And yeah a good number of times I didn't actually get across to say "I like having you around as a person". It isn't the hardest thing to do but the thought of doing it doesn’t come often. Some people can be unswayed by it and don't need it and do go fine without it even, but everyone is a little different

When a basketball player wins a buzzer beater on an away game, the instinct reaction (pre corona) is to immediately run for the locker room and the whole entire team runs with them. There is a bit of "off camera" rationale behind this, which is that if an away team wins on a buzzer beater, the home team fans give a lot of shit so the winning team runs to the plane, literally sprint to the literal plane (or halfway there probably), as soon as they win. And not that all home team fans are obnoxious but it did become a kind of a culture that is just fun seeings whenever they do that. Ha… oh well

Not everyone is going to thank you. Sometimes you gotta jet off to the jet with the rest of the team. Sometimes you can bask in the glory. Sometimes you're not going to even get it, and sometimes you do give it and don't get much return

There is a bit of "sorry" that comes to a rejection. A good number of people will say "no" but like you for trying. They might actually go "sorry" and genuinely say "sorry" but deep inside they do appreciate you for having had tried and kinda do feel a little good about it. Girls too. Though if you get a "no thank you" over a "no … thank you" then you kinda did also get to hear a bit of what you needed to hear. Though it might not be what you wanted to hear, knowing is for the better. It kinda might have been on them and it kinda might have been on you, though either way, with final thoughts of partings words, well, you did hear how they actually feel

So with that being a pulled apart way in saying "thank you" to people you care about or not, well, for the people who we didn't part ways with, it doesn't hurt to say Thank You
