People on Average
Amateur Philosophy

The typical person does not exactly behave like people on average

People on average have similar desires and emotional mechanisms and seemingly go through the same motions of life. We can generalize human behavior though while this can answer many questions via psychology and sociology, the depth of every individual is beyond them as again, these are generalizations. While they may be accurate it only completes a ballpark of half of what is related to an individual. Everyone's got their own upbringing, experiences, and culture. Everyone's got their own hobbies, personalities, ambitions, and tastes. By the way, but no not everyone who is tall played basketball when they were younger. We think people seemingly and probably are a certain way because the chances seem likely but that is again, a generalization

The variation in people's characteristics are vast. We might be thinking "What do people think about me" on a personal level and "What do people like?" when it comes to business; however these questions do not ponder about reality on a complete level as people as a whole can't be boiled down to a singular construct of normality. We can hypothetically perceive the general public as an "average Joe," but this representation would be bland or idealistic. While there might be average notions across specific categories, we take on specific traits that we consider to be part of our identity. While we can be "normal" all summed up, everyone's got their own quirks, wit, and pleasures. While we might be thinking of all the likability traits such as average number of friends and possessions along with salaries on top of favorite things, we don't often go about asking people's prevalent sources of struggle. Just as we have particular things going our way there are also certain things not going well, and naturally people talk about the latter on a personal level less than the former. There is no thing as "average" as average is a singular norm that represents the whole, and this is not possible with people as there is no one single individual we can fictionally manufacture as the "average Joe" that embodies all of humanity's complexities. The best is a vague notion that uses Universalization though the qualities we are more concerned about when it comes to self-consciousness are the particular traits we are good or not that great at. So considering our show of strength and the cover of weaknesses that everyone does do, if we are to create the "average Joe" anyway, he (they) would be pretty fucking cool. Because "he" said so and told "us" that

It is our creativity and individual pursuits and particular interests that make us whole. I like to think that I am a complete person by the things I am good at, not necessary by having to be great at everything possible to be complete as an individual. Said attributes are all part of our sophistication while sure, everyone is animalistic which is nice to keep in mind. Because sophistication is complex and a subjective matter, it doesn't make sense to somehow establish what that looks like on average by generalizing it
