Perfect Perfectionism
Life Improvement

One time when I was in rehab I was walking in and out of the room and returned to the ending credits as the movie was over and my friend remarked, "Well that was a weird ending." I missed most of the movie but the plot was thick and she said it was odd that it ended with the characters eating chili. You can probably throw Dexter in the mix of shows that wrapped up unexpectedly and I'm sure yall got a dozen more you can add to the list off the top of your head

Life isn't perfect and indeed so, and this includes the reality that a lot of events in our lives won't have an extravagant satisfying conclusion. Some grand finale with fireworks after a Mexican standoff rarely happens and if it did then it would sound like being in war or the sort. The girl you used to have a crush on probably doesn't give a rat's ass about you but you probably can't care any less when she likes you all over again while someone out there is causing a bit of drama with your best friend on top of someone taking the job you wanted so you found an even better one but it’s too bad that someone bumped into you so your phone shattered on its fall to the ground as a car crashed into your relationships while your home is still a wreck since the party your threw ended a bit ago though none of this is on your mind as your paycheck came through so it’s time to hit the bars all over again. Rinse and repeat. Birthdays pop up once in a while and maybe your team wins the championships but outside that the motions of life are what they are and that’s how the cookie crumbled. Unless your name is literally Lionel Messi and the whole world cheers every time you make a goal, your family is probably still complaining to you about their problems after you have a good day at work

Eventually we find it content when things are "perfectly fine". Seems like an oxymoron of a sort. "Fine" can mean along the lines of "damn that car is fine" to "fine whatever." Perhaps things are good when they're "perfectly fine" as if maybe that’s a good enough standard of a good life. We all don't have a perfect life but I hope we can agree that it is quite satisfying when things are "perfectly fine". Like the word fine itself, you can say it in a good way and you can say it in a neutral way and you can say it in a disappointing way. That being considered, maybe we will find it pleasing when things are perfectly fine

The fact that "nothing is perfect" shouldn't solely be an excuse we say to make ourselves feel good just because we didn't end up perfect since as a matter of fact, perfection itself does not exist. We can be perfect in a particular manner but not completely perfect as a whole. Intellectually it might be obvious that anyone who is great at the sciences might not be proficient at drawing murals and some of the best musicians might have zero clue regrading world history while a politician might not be able to do a lay-up. Ideologically, it goes beyond the academics: if a business strategy is a blueprint on how to run a business, there isn't a perfect strategy to mentality either

To go on a tangent, ideas and opinions generally take on a form of two opposite natures: Universalization and Specialization. Ideas along the lines of Universalization include global warming, while conversations that incorporate Specialization discuss if Brazilian Jiu Jitsu is better than Boxing or not

Universalization is a strategy that appeals to the large masses by being in sync with the lowest common denominator across communities in a manner that probably involves low risk or personal investment with anthems taking on the form of "Love you" while avoiding disagreement as much as possible

Specialization takes on a different strategical form in the opposite manner as it caters to unique smaller groups using a particular appeal to coalesce cliques and might demand for slight risk and personal investment with slogans that may be synonymous to "Fuck yeah" while being somewhat open to conflict

Universalization is everything Specialization is not, and vice versa. Both have opposite forms and have their own merits or lack thereof and no one side is better than the other, along with the fact that there are notions that use the combination of the both. Whatever best way to go about things will probably do as there is no clear idea of what blend is ideal with every circumstance, as if there was a perfect way to go about the matter

So be the best you can and after trying and seeing that no mentality is perfect, don't sweat too much about it since perfect perfection didn't exist in the first place. Some people can and are "perfect" in a specific sense, but at times these people can be bothersome on a personal level as no one really likes a moral perfectionist smart-ass know-it-all grammar nazi who got irritated that you showed up to dinner two minutes late. You just can't help it but want to tell them to ease up and show some slack. On a personal level. It’s alright if things are perfectly fine as perfection doesn't exist. Even if it did, we would get annoyed or bored by it. Relax and enjoy things as they are and don't sweat too much about it 
