Permanent Procrastination
Life Improvement

Let's say for the sake of conversation that you and I were amazing friends who grabbed food every once in a while and you happened to be allergic to apricots. It wouldn't matter for the most part and many a days can go by without us considering the matter but every other summer I get my hands on a ribbon winning apricot pie and bring it to one of our potlucks. Now we got a problem. Ideally as good friends we can work things out, but the primary fact of the matter is that you are and will continue to be allergic to apricots and there really isn't a whole lot arguing and talking things out will convert to actual change: because I and a handful of other people love apricot pies, someone is always going to be inconvenienced though you insist I bring a strawberry pie in lieu of them

Unlike medical allergies, people have the hypothetical capacity to change and be different but at times it may be realistic to treat people's differences as if they were allergic to apricots. A difference in which there is no workable perfect solution that is regarded impersonally. Though there may not ever be an immediate solution, we are going to be compatible with each other anyway so you, I, or us decide that it's not that big of a deal and not try and go deeply about the matter. In this hypothetical situation it is helpful to realize that the worst case scenario is a conflict that happens within a part of a meal once a day out of a year. Even if all parties refused to compromise, it affects 1 dish out of 3 meals out of 5 entrees out of 365 days in a year, a figure of around 0.00018265 or 0.01826%, and something like this shouldn’t affect more than 0.02% of our relationship, although if we only met once a year I see how this figure would be at around 33 to 100%

We then might do a little thing called Permanent Procrastination. Eventually we fall towards the inclination that the time of day to figure it all out is "not anytime soon on God knows when" since it's not our top priority to resolve the apricot allergy. The problems in life on average will be a bit more serious than literal apricots though using Permanent Procrastination isn’t a bad idea

For example, your boss is a dick. You can use the advice given by Nobel Peace prize winners with perfect communication skills to consult all your coworkers including boss themself in finding every little thing everyone likes or dislikes then dance along or play some mind games but your other coworker might get the promotion so you got more on your plate, alongside every Monday being an agonizing hell in which work was more than the occupation since you are now tied up with office politics and anxious of every win or loss or the developing word on the street. Or you can Permanently Procrastination the issue, not think about it more than you ought to, shrug it off, make the best of your job and focus on some easier and more meaningful objectives to work your way up or work your way out. Perhaps you also have this feeling towards your friends and family. Oh and guess what, one day you find out that the issue was resolved for the better like you hoped so without you having to stress at all about it as there were things in the works

If you seen the movie Bruce Almighty you can start to see that not everything can or will work out to your favor. Everyone is allergic to something as infuriating it might be that people seemingly change too slowly or not at all. For the time being there might not be a whole lot you can immediately do about it to fulfill instant results. Not everything may have a perfect compromise

For a few of you who are skeptical and are thinking, "Yes I am a great problem solver and I can work things out between everyone with whatever issues and also get everyone to like me," you might be the world's best dog whisperer though outside that, Permanent Procrastination might have to do for now, even more so when it comes to your personal issues

Someone broke a promise or cheated on you or betrayed and backstabbed you, someone made a decision of their own that wasn't part of your desires. The job you had with the perfect workplace environment with outstanding coworkers with the best boss in the world was no longer as all your jobs evaporated as the business itself went under for good. You had to move and start all over again but you're dismayed that you don't have the same routine on top of the fact that it was all because of some change in the marketplace caused by a dude named Chad Douchebag, who made a better business and it blew up seemingly overnight. You're looking for a drastic turn of events on top of the fact that your partner got a different job and broke things off to start a new life somewhere halfway across the world. In looking for new development it seems that there isn't anything around the corner while you’re trying to look for closure but not finding any, and ultimately it daunts on you that maybe you won't. While everyone supporting you says you'll find it

You don’t need to find closure with everything. As a leadership trait it is nice to put on the opinion that "everything is a blessing in disguise" but you do not need closure that a baseball game got postponed due to the rain and no you don't need to ponder about the grumpy new coworker who gave you an attitude problem since he gives everyone an attitude problem (whether you knew that or not) and no you do not need closure that you got a speeding ticket when everyone else was pushing 15 above in the first place. It is obsessive to find closure with everything. At the end of the day closure is for you and closure is not an accomplishment but a state of mind as the objective of closure aims to provide you with an ideal mentality so that you can have an easier time being the best person you can be. If closure is to find some grand life meaning and you found it, then so be it, though what people want and are fundamentally looking for is that state of mind over "having" an "abstract" concept. If you got a cold then it doesn't matter which cough medicine you use as long as it helps you recuperate and feel better, and this is the same with "closure". Permanent Procrastination is an option and like most things, not a perfect solution, but it is an effective one. Closure itself takes a lot of work and commitment and everyone is amazing at procrastinating in the first place so there is that (though don't quote me on that since I have a bit else to say)

Being compatible with people for technical reasons like allergies themselves is relatively easy but gets tougher for things like forgiveness. Forgiveness is an exercise of virtue, and like all exercises, takes practice. If you have the goal in forgiving people for the big stuff you might want to start with the small stuff. I do find it admirable if everyone looked on the bright side of things but in working your way up, Permanent Procrastination and tabling the big stuff for now can settle rather than tackling them constantly and getting little headway

One thing I learned is that it isn't always the best way to go about things in always working to be right. In winning an argument or establishing an idea you probably wasted half an hour to a year and maybe lost an acquaintance or ten, as there is a cost to everything, even goodness. That being said, even if we made the assumption that closure was a viable course of action, it wasn't as if people also stated that it was always worth the trouble given every timeline or circumstance. In general, there may be a truth to the matter but who knows. In the same light, assuming that there is always closure, a perfect resolution, a workable mental compromise or life meaning is a tall order. And to insist on appealing to people's laziness, maybe you shouldn't work so hard to find closure because closure might find its way to you

Genuine peace is not easy to grasp. Until then, the intermediate step of maintaining yourself persistently and procrastinating the issue might serve well
