Pimp Life
Side Topic

One fundamental regarding real world pimps is that they resemble parental figures

As opposed to "pimps" in mainstream media, pimps in real life are everything an ideal parent is (I will explicitly state that no one should aspire to be a criminal for the purposes of this article). Pimps provide financial, materialistic, and emotional support, promise security, introduce people to a group, and provide guidance. While for the most part there is a given agenda and way of conducting business that may or may not take on stereotypical forms, whatever holds a pimp to be adept at pimping is whatever would make a parent a great parent

A lot of pimps in real life are good at recruiting new members and the underlying characteristic of a new recruit is the desire of "the ideal parent" and are looking for one, whether they know that or not. A pimp may not try and pimp everyone they come across as pimps know that the people they want to take in are the kind of people who might have an unfulfilled life that perhaps lacked a parent they wished they had. You can say that a sugar-daddy is someone who provides money or gifts for companionship, a mentor is someone who provides professional, intellectual, or philosophical support, your therapist helps you navigate with your emotional needs, your friends may make up your social circle or individual romantic relationships, and perhaps the workplace meet some of these needs. Your pastor, rabbi, or priest - if you have one - may be a shoulder to lean on. Perhaps you have people like these in your professional life and you call them "boss", but not all general managers and C class executives are good at their jobs. Though what a pimp does is everything all those people do combined, and everything a pimp does is what a parent does too

The legality of the life of gangsters and mobsters notwithstanding, there are a few qualities it takes to be good at pimping. If you are the kind of person whose understanding of pimps comes from TV and hip-hop hits, then the idea of a "pimp" may be "whoever gets all the girls" (for those who give a shit, this is merely called being a player). However in real life, pimping is more than that 

The best boss in the professional workplace is ideologically, a pimp. Not all bosses however are much of a guidance figure or lack authority or don't bother to think about emotional stipulations, though if you met a real cool boss who did do all this and knew some pimps in real life, you would know that they are characteristically pretty similar. Like with bosses and pimps in real life, if they aren't good at what they do, then they would lose their supporters. Leadership requirements between the two are similar, inasmuch the environments they operate in are nothing alike. Perhaps with the stigma we have of professional supervisors and bling-flashing pimps, we came short of understanding what it takes to be either

Pimps are everything an ideal parent is. And yes, I hope you had a good childhood growing up and whether that is true or not, no parent is perfect. Parents are people too and have their own shortcomings. Perhaps we had parents who were strict, emotionally inadequate, financially strained, personally clueless or incomplete and also struggled with their own purpose while looking for their place in life and the meaning of it. And for a few of us, we had fights with them and maybe when we were 12 years old, told them that so and so had better ones or "I hate you!" and the sort. It's not easy being a parent, it's not easy being a boss, and it isn't easy being a pimp either. Perhaps given the shortcomings of people in our past or current lives we look to fill the void we may not know to exist, and maybe when coming across a figure that has everything we didn't know we were wishing for, we find ourselves drawn to them. And that person is fundamentally known as a pimp

All in all, if you want to be a pimp, know that a pimp is everything the ideal parent is. For those of us who were raised by people in our childhood, understand that parenting is like pimping even if we never thought about it that way. There are good ones and incompetent ones and everything in between, but if you have the desire to and can, try and let the ones who raised you know that you appreciate them for giving their best

For me personally, I am forever glad in having the parents I have
