Playing Poker
Side Topic

I am not a professional gambler though I have came across a few poker strategies that are useful in everyday life. I myself am not close to being World Series of Poker level, but I do consider myself better than the average Joe who doesn't have much poker experience at all. For all intents and purposes, do not use my advice (I may update this time to time as I think of some more tips, though I admit there are a lot of better gamblers than I - Edited 14 September 2021)

 

Mathematical Computation: If you have an X% chance of winning the pot and would add Y% of the pot and that is less than the chance of winning, continuing the round will in the long term bring in money. For example, if you have a 70% chance of winning the pot and might add 50% of the pot, if you keep betting on these situations, you will end up making money. This also goes for lower chances: if you have a 30% chance of winning but will only contribute 15% of the pot, then it works in your favor to keep playing

The drawback is that while this is mathematically correct, there are many nuances to the game than pure statistical long term projections. This is one philosophy that can work if you are playing 100 hands and stick with it. There are many developments to a round to skew the marginal cost / benefit, along with the fact that your brain isn't a computer that can count cards like such

 

Gotta Fold: Some rounds you win and some rounds you don't, so it is good to minimize your losses when you can

 

Don’t Tilt: Tilting is a mindset after losing a round in which you want to gamble harder and throw in your chips more freely in hopes of making up your losses with a big win. Losing rounds is inevitable, but when someone tilts, they start to play more desperately and execute poor judgement and decision making. It is important to not let continuous losses cause tilting (that is, exasperate your mentality), which will in turn cause more and heavier losses and cyclically worsen being in tilt. Prevent tilting yourself, though when you see it in others make use of that opportunity

Read the Room: After looking at your cards, try and figure out what cards other people have. Consider table position (who bets first, who bets last) as the people who bet first set the tempo for each stage. There is a slight difference between starters and finishers though anyone can set the tempo, and importantly the people who go first reveal their tempo plans first before other people do. This means that while the people at the top of the rotation establish an agenda, the closers are the ones to react to that. What you would like to do is control the dynamic of the round and think about what dynamic you would like to have and how you can use your position to achieve that dynamic

For example, if you bet first and want to bet high, you could just go for it at the start of the round. Are your opponents aggressive? You could bet small and when they raise on your raise, you could re-raise them back. If you were planning on raising $150 for example, you could bet $50 and when they raise you in return with $100, you could raise them right back with $150 like you wanted to. You managed to get them to put $100 in the pot and perhaps if you started with $150, they might have folded there. It's not enough to have a good hand or even the winning hand if you don't manage to milk money out of your opponents in the process. You could also check even if you wanted to raise and have other people raise for you. This works when you understand people's personalities and know who plays cautiously and who likes to raise eagerly. Playing slow works when you want aggressive players to raise for you, playing aggressively works when you are dealing with people who like to bluff

The concept of folding is attached with the concept of bluffing: the point of bluffing is so that you can force someone out of the round before everyone has to show their cards or bet so that you seem like you have the cards you want (to eventually force them out of the round). There are semi-bluffs in which you can seem to have a good hand that is not completed but in fact need another card to complete the straight or a flush. This might be called value betting or something like that, but if you have an incomplete combination, eventually you will complete it or not. In whatever way you bluff or semi-bluff, it works better the more you are controlling the dynamic. Bluffing in which you are not controlling the dynamic is a waste of chips

 

Speed: Poker is a game of cards (value of the ones you have) and the dynamic of the round. A good way in measuring the dynamic and playing it into your favor is speed. If you bet last and quickly call a raise or reraise, you can destroy the dynamic of someone who bluffs. Someone bluffs, and someone else quickly calls. During the middle stages of the round it will weaken the bluffer’s dynamic of the round. Calling quickly is a way to measure if someone else is bluffing or not if you weren't sure. On the bluffer’s end they would need to bluff harder or just as quickly to maintain their dynamic. As a bluffer, faced with this situation you would need to maintain the bluffing image or fold. You could also do the opposite in which you play slow every round, which is a great starting point. Whether you intentionally go fast or slow is not as important as being in control of whatever speed you do choose. You don't want to be unaware of your speed so that others know that your speed is always correlated to your hand strength

 

The River: The last play of the round is the River, in which you want to double the pot if dynamic was working in your favor. During the middle stages of a round there are the two cards each individual has, the cards on the board, and the potential new cards that might develop in future stages. There are three categories of cards to consider in the middle stages, but on the River there are only two: the cards you have and the cards on the board. So beyond the obvious in which the round is almost coming to a close, dynamic increases in importance as the concept of "future luck" does not exist at that point. Of course, you could have good dynamic that can be beat by a better hand, but the chances of beating a better hand than yours increases the more dynamic you control. An important concept of dynamic is betting history, which is how much people have placed bets on each development of a round

For example: you have a straight flush on the flop and there is no possible way other people can beat that. The other person has a three of a kind, but recognizes a combination that can beat that. To you, the chances of winning is 100% cards, while to the other person it is 50% cards, 30% dynamic, and 20% of future developments. Another round you both have a lower pair with a queen on the board that no one connected, so both of you might be thinking you have 20% in cards, 30% in dynamic, and 50% in future developments. Nothing can beat a winning hand, but in the majority of cases in which there isn't (yet) a solid winner having realized it, dynamic plays into factor

Pay to Play: The game of poker involves betting with money in which someone eventually comes out on top. One wins by having the best hand, but more accurately, the best hand standing. While you can be in a good situation with the cards you were dealt or the cards on the flop, some random player can get lucky and make a nice set by being lucky with the cards that come out. For example, you could have AK suited and someone else has J3 off-suit and there is a K3T on the board. If you don't bet high, then the other player with J3 might be willing to stick around. Then on the turn a J comes out and on the river a 2 comes out. If someone saw this game from an outside perspective (like watching on TV), they would think your AK is pretty good pre-flop and on the flop, but the J3 came out on top. This happens less the less you play passively in good situations

Poker is a game that uses some luck, and letting players hang around allows weaker hands to get lucky more often and eventually win. If you have a good hand it is important to bet high preflop, like if you had QQ, so your opponents wouldn't play for cheap with 58o or the like (o is off-suit, s is suited. In general when I see my cards I notice if they’re suited or not, otherwise I chalk it off as an off-suit). The more often you let random hands come into play, the more often they can connect with the board and beat your Ace pairs. This goes for all plays before showdown. Not taking the initiative when you're in a good situation allows others to stick around more often to maybe eventually taking the pot with a lucky river card or the sort

 

Delayed Response: People analyze other people's reactions and while you are doing this on others, others are also doing this on you too. Let's say for example that you have a decent hand and on the flop you already nailed down a flush. On the flop you could raise as you have the winning hand, or you could delay your excitement. The delayed response confuses people because it can make people think that the flop was something that didn't work in your favor, but the turn card was a card that did work, tricking them in thinking that you don't have a flush and betting against you thinking that

 (This is not the best example since if you have a flush with two of the suited cards in your hand, there is a chance that on the Turn or the River another card of the same suit lands on the board. If someone had only one card of that suit, then they too will have a flush, and if that card was ranked higher than yours, they would beat your flush. In practice, you want to adjust depending on how high your top suited card was. If you have a Ace King or maybe a Queen, then yes you might be able to slowplay the cards that you have, but if you have a flush on the flop with a 2-3, then it is best to shove right away and take the pot to not risk the chances of getting beat if there are still a few people in play. This goes for having literally “the best hand” in the early stages, because if there are still cards left to come, there is a chance it can be beat on “nice combos” such as flushes and straights, which is also true for outside straight draws and less of inside straight draws [an outside straight draw is when you have the middle cards(s) of a straight and an inside straight draw is when you have the cards on the ends to complete a straight]. All in all, you can slowplay very good hands, if you have a good hand then its nice to bring it to a conclusion fast, like medium bet then shove on the turn and not see the River card in this instance, but between rounds you would need to bluff on occasion so that when you do want to bring the round to a close other players will play along. While it is easy to learn which combinations are good as that’s relatively obvious, on the intermediate level you will need to learn how to not get too excited with good hands while at the same time not losing “the best for now hands” too, and on an advanced level you will understand how to play the game depending on the number of players there are, table position, the use of bluffs in previous rounds, and the mathematical probability in suits coming out and the level of analysis of the cards you think others have by the time the Flop came around)

 

Playing Dumb: When you are at table in which there are a variety of people who are novice to professional, the sharks will go after the weak fish. People will want to understand which poker concepts you know and how many levels of poker you think about. Play dumb for cheap and have other people think that you don't know much about poker and have them expect you to not utilize poker concepts and have them rule out the possibility that you know what you are doing. You could do things like make blunders about checking on a raise or the such as long as you don't piss off the dealer enough to get kicked out, so you weaken other people's defenses and level of analysis. Then you could pull off a smart move and shake people in underestimating you. This also works if you don't know much about poker because other people will take you seriously that you fooled people into thinking you're dumb and correcting them to think you were smart all along. Other players might be thinking "what else do they know" and play cautiously against you. This works only if you are playing intermediate players. You could act like you never been to the casino and drop the word "pre-flop" and other people will think you spent years playing. It is ideal for people to overestimate you or underestimate you, but it isn’t good for opponents to correctly estimate you as they can thus estimate what your true hand strength is

 

Playing Confused: Eventually other people will want to figure out your mentality and the thought processes that goes inside your head and it might eventually show. Perhaps they figure out that you like betting on Aces or you like to chase after the straight, or you like going for simple pairs. One way to prevent others from figuring out how you play is to indeed not have a thought process. For example, if Brianna likes eating tacos on Tuesday, then you could expect her to be eating tacos next Tuesday. But if Brianna eats tacos every time the day of the month is a prime number, that might be a bit harder to figure out. So instead of having one single plan of playing poker, you could play acting like you don't know what you're doing. If you actually don't know what you’re doing, then people can't figure out your poker mentality if you don't have one. This is a terrible idea in practicality, but you could try doing this thing where you bluff on suited diamonds only or play only every 3 to 8 rounds. While poker has a lot of material that outlines common strategies that are indeed very useful, poker is a game of analysis. It is harder for people to figure out how you think if the rules you play by are odd, and you also control your own poker behavior in not letting bad judgement tell you when to bluff or not if you aren't so sure. Of course, actually have an understanding of how to play and make good plays, but if you play too consistently then you become an easier book to read. This also goes for speed, you can choose to go fast for 5 rounds then play slow for 5 rounds and go fast 5 rounds again, so that other people are trying to analyze the speed to your hand strength when it didn't have anything to do with that. So in other poker tactics, since poker is a game of analysis, you will want to give your opponents moves that are seemingly purposed that truly have no purpose behind them. It is not ideal to have every move you make have a purpose behind it, and you also do not want to make moves that are blatantly obviously fabricated, but you do well when you blend in moves that come across as purposeful and send them on a train of thought on something that detracts from the real purpose behind your moves. Bluffing is not merely to steal pots with weak hands, bluffs are a way to instill the notion of confusing your purposeful moves as non-purposeful moves, so when you make purposeful moves it does not come across as that

 

Check your Hand: If someone checks their hand after they made a high bet, they generally don't know what they are doing. If they do this too often, it means they are on edge or their head is not in the game. If they do this when three (more effective with four) of the same suit is on the board, then they might be checking if they got a flush. If they do this once in a while, they may be bluffing that they were "checking if they had a flush" to let you think they have one when they don't. They might also check their cards so you think about it too much. You can do this once in a while to confuse people, though in general the people who check their cards are either not that good at poker and can't remember their cards or either really good to fool intermediate players in sending them on a certain chain of though processes

Don't check your cards since bluffing by checking your cards is possible only when you normally don't do it

Bring it Home: After you have a winning streak, other players may tilt. People don’t like cocky players who think they’re the shit because they won a few rounds. They may be more likely to want to challenge you. There are generally two modes of poker players: reckless and cautious. Reckless players play more and gamble more freely, while cautious players tend to play only when they have good hands. There is a lot of material on how to deal with reckless and cautious players in the form of books, though my advice is that if you choose to be cocky then you are likely to have cautious players play more recklessly. Players with low chip stacks tend to play more recklessly, as they might shove all-in and buy in again a few times. Players with high chip stacks can, but playing recklessly will potentially cost them more. The ones who don’t tilt will play their style the same, but when players play more recklessly, they will challenge you with hands they wouldn’t normally play with. Even without winning or losing rounds, people tend to avoid cautious players as they might have good hands, though if other players don’t challenge them, then they don’t have much chips to win. Playing recklessly is not a result of ignorance as being purely cautious in gambling is counterproductive. You can however - whether it’s you being cocky or someone else being cocky that causes this - notice when cautious players start to play more recklessly. Most players aren’t as good at a style that they normally don’t play (whether it’s reckless/cautious, mathematical computation versus playing on personalities and chip stacks, playing your hands or playing the board), so unless you are playing someone who is naturally well-rounded at poker, it’s easier to capitalize off players who are playing a style that they aren’t used to. This again, is also known as tilting. So while tilting is caused by an individual losing rounds, it can also happen if there is an asshole at the table

Since people generally slow down after winning, you could also pretend to play arrogantly if you get consecutive good hands. Generally with a good hand you might want to slowly milk the value out of it, but with a winning streak, it can help if people confuse your cockiness with a genuinely good hand if that’s one way you want to go about it. You might also want to play aggressively with small pots to give off a cocky image even if you don’t win the pot, so when you want to play aggressively with a strong hand and a large pot, you are more likely to have people willing to play along, thinking that you are bluffing. This way, in losing chips with small pots you can have an easier time winning big ones

The opposite of tilting is arrogance and when this happens after a winning streak, you are prone to lose your winnings. Quitting is nonetheless important after success as maintaining your winnings is essential regardless of how reckless or cautious people are starting to feel, or perhaps because of this. You have more to gain and lose when everyone is starting to get heated. It’s fine to be cocky once in a while, but not persistently or permanently after a few wins. Quit when you’re ahead, and relish in the chips you won. If you don’t quit eventually, you will either be the best player in the room or in the world, or lose all your chips

Playing Confidently: Like with people in real life in the non-poker world, you are more confident the more you are relaxed. If you are stressed out in real life, you will be stressed out when it comes to playing with money as well
