Practically Speaking
Amateur Philosophy

If you so choose to have patience, virtue provides the fruit of its own reward

Being humble, while it can be a moral thing to do, has the benefit that when you have a few things going your way, people won't get jealous of your success and as a humble person you will be admired by others who have differences as opposed to having others desiring to see you stumble

Being thankful, while it can be a moral thing to do, has the benefit that when you are grateful for every act of kindness that is given your way you will be seen as others as someone who is worth investing in. When every act of kindness is given back in return, people will be more willing to be kind if they have the confidence that their kindness to you will be worth the while 

Being supportive, while it can be a moral thing to do, has the benefit that as a supportive person your help is enjoyed by others so that when you are also a person who is in need, people will be willing to support you for having supported them and also so that you can support them again in the future. If you have the reputation of being a giving person, others will wish to give to you as well

Being honest, while it can be a moral thing to do, has the benefit that it is less stressful for being judged as someone you are as opposed than being judged for someone you are not. While there are complexities in life in which fudging a little bit is critical in the utilization of illusions and building relationships slowly (as deeper relationships take time), it is not easy to be compatible with all opinions. While all values can be addressed, prioritizing your values for yourself is important, and when said, probably the ideal thing to do. It is fine to value virtue in general, but some virtues are better than others. When you are an honest person you are judged for the virtues that you think are important over being judged for a virtue you don't think is that important, and in a world in which everyone has different priorities, you will be a happy person when you have the virtues you find to be valuable and stick with them. This also means being honest with yourself about which virtues you do find to be valuable, as there is more to honesty than being truthful to others

Being loyal, while it can be a moral thing to do, has the benefit that a lot of meaningful acts of kindness will come out of loyalty and finding loyalty is more fulfilling than merely kindness in itself

Not always being loyal to the money can be wholesome. While money is important in a lot of ways, money's got no feelings so don't be surprised when it gives you none

———————————————————

There is a tex-mex restaurant around town (they advertised it like that) that served free chips and salsa with dinner as an appetizer. It was pretty cool and I enjoy going there. Covid came around and they stopped doing that for health reasons and started to charge for them. Ordered one anyway. Last time I went they didn’t give them away for free still. You know, the economy and all and why change the price back to free if you've already been charging them

It costs a few bucks but having the chips is part of the joy of going there. And when I go again I'll probably get the chips again even when I have to buy them (not like I'm complaining too much about it). I told my dad that the chips make it fun and if they never made it free to begin with, I probably wouldn't have gotten around to ordering them

Character values are like that. You can give it away for free so people get a taste of it, and if they like the taste of it then they'll miss it when they go without it. People can do things on their own accord, sure, and maybe I get the appetizer on a few occasions

If people got a taste of something, they'll have a craving for it, and if people have a craving for something then you got them in the mood
