Reasons vs. Excuses
Life Improvement

Most of the things that hold us back are actually excuses 

Let’s say that you broke your femur and someone wanted you to play soccer with them. The obvious answer is no, as there is no doubt that you cannot be playing soccer while on crutches. Yes, if you are in a wheelchair then maybe that sort of variation is possible with basketball, but in any case you have a valid reason as to why you cannot play soccer with a broken leg

Excuses are ideas that you believe in that prevent you from doing things. The thing about excuses is that they do not actually have the unwavering capability in preventing you to do the things you want - as a broken femur might with soccer - or that they are convincing to universally everyone else

The biggest excuses that people tend to have are: 

    Failure in the past with that person or with other people

    Lack of motivation or weak emotional state, or just mood in general

    Comfort in the status quo

Let's say that you want to ask for a raise. Yeah, you want a raise, but who doesn't want a raise? But if we ask for one we might be turned down altogether. Does the desire to want a better pay grade end there?

And maybe we continue to work after being rejected from a raise thinking, "Well, there really is no need for me to try all that hard anymore since I'm not going to get a raise". Could this be true? Maybe. But unlike broken femurs and soccer balls, these seemingly valid reasons are actually excuses that dictate the way we behave. Once you stop trying to push yourself, the possibility of a raise definitely ends there in any case

A genuine reason is a rationale that 100% prevents you from doing things, no matter how many people's opinion you ask for. There is no sane person who would advocate someone who is injured to play soccer and risk further hurting themselves. It starts to become an excuse if you can imagine someone out there thinking a little differently about the matter

The concept that "Life is not fair" is also a sort of an excuse. The actual claim that "Life is not fair" is 100% correct but not a valid reason in why you should hold back from giving it your best in life. When you have less optimism towards life because it is not fair, the idea that "Life is not fair" becomes an excuse

A lot of us live normal lives. What separates those who are normal and extraordinary (to even depressed) is that those who attained success listened to fewer excuses in getting to where they wanted to go. This is awe-inspiring when they came from unfortunate circumstances

Excuses may make sense on an emotional level, but once you are in a better place and no longer have the emotions that you used to, you will wonder why you let those excuses get in your way in the first place. You may have an event and an emotion that results from it, but how much that emotion permeates your mentality, behavior, and actions is up to you. Saying that you are helplessly a certain way simply because of reasons A, B, or C is also a kind of an excuse. Somewhere out there is someone who faced worse and felt less emotion regarding it than you might have

The worst enemy is ourselves. You have the potential to make all sorts of friends and be hired by all sorts of employers (or even create your own company), but these things are only possible if you stop letting the excuses you impose on yourself prevent you from developing into the kind of person who can have new things. We all have excuses that get in our way, but once we take all those excuses out, what is the real reason you want the things you want?

 

Take for example the Pokémon Theme song. The first lines are:

"I want to be the very best, that no one ever was"

So we follow Ash Ketchum's journey (not that I know too much about it, and after looking it up there seems to be a never ending TV series…) and see what happens at the end of Season One: Ash makes it to the final Pokémon Trainer and fights him. Ash ends up losing. All of his Pokémon are taken out and indeed, Ash fails in being "the very best"

The lesson learned is not that Ash was unhappy that he did not get to be the very best Pokémon trainer, as he clearly wasn't since he lost, but that he valued the friends he made on his way (and had Pikachu). And that meant more to him than being the "best" Pokémon trainer. I think. I didn't actually watch Pokemon and just heard about it so don't quote me on that

But you know, most of us know most of the song. You can listen to the song for yourself again and see whatever deeper meaning you find in it. I guess he kept going since there are numerous series to the story. Not that he is an actual guy but hey, who didn’t like Pokémon as a kid?

I went on a bit of a tangent here. In summary: you should get rid of the excuses that prevent you from being the best person that you can be. You should also get rid of the excuses that prevent you from being a happy person, even if you don’t achieve everything you wanted to
