Rebellion and Freedom
Amateur Philosophy

The American Revolution is a good example that I will talk about another year

———————————————————

People like their sense of independence. Independence is an American ideal of the desire of doing what they want to do. I cannot speak for those with backgrounds from other countries where the sense of independence is lesser. Even if you didn't come from the Untied States of America, we all have the feeling of wanting to be free of any shackles against individuality and stay distant of restraint [1]

For this reason, people do not like being told what to do, even if it is true and logically sound. Even if it is the best for them, they might not want to do as they are told. If you tell someone what to do, no matter how right you are, you take away their sense of freedom and independence simply by desiring them to act and obey you

There is a school program called D.A.R.E. DARE teaches young students not to do drugs. You can look at DARE's own Wikipedia page and find that there is no effect. If anything, it seemed to increase drug use. Statistics find that most students were not swayed to not do drugs. 90% of high schoolers, according to the California Department of Education, were neutral or negative to the speakers who advocated against drug use

Children are naturally curious. By telling them to not do something, they will want to do it. Telling someone that they should not or can't do something is an infringement of their freedom and free will. People do not like having their freedom taken away. People like having a choice in what to do. By telling students that they should not do drugs, they feel their sense of individuality and freedom taken away from them, and to my argument, will do those things to maintain their sense of freedom

Some kids don’t even know that drugs exist, and by teaching them of such concepts and telling them that they should not do them has the affect that they will want to do drugs

If you know the story of Pandora's Box: Zeus got pissed at Prometheus for giving fire to people so he gave Pandora a box to not open. And Pandora opened the box

So not like Greek Mythology is an actual event, but even people in ancient history know how people act. Telling someone to not do something creates a desire for the other person to want to do the opposite

——————————————————— 

I do all of my writing at the bar. Well, pretty much 95% of my writing is done at the bar. My creative energy is best there and not much anywhere else. Anyway…

I was writing two of my articles. There was a girl who came and sat next to me. She was pretty. She looked at me and said, "You're writing at the bar? That's weird"

To which I said kinda pissed, "If you think that me writing at the bar is weird, then I don't want to talk to you.” My left eye is blind anyway so I pretty much ignored her since she sat on my left side

She was flirting with the guy to her left but the whole time she was doing a hair flick and hitting my face with her long and smooth hair while rubbing her whole backside on my left arm. As I continued writing. I have never at this point in life had so much bodily contact with someone I just told to fuck off

I took offense in her opinions of me. And I was really putting my mind in my work. I was writing

Anyway, she and the guy eventually started to leave after a half hour. Before she left she took my pen and wrote her name in my notebook, then left

Another half hour later some guy came up to me and asked me if I knew some pick-up techniques and if I wanted to cold approach some girls with him and his friends. I said, "Later, I'm writing at the moment.” I got his number but he and his friends left around ten minutes later

A little bit after a (pretty hot) mom two seats to my left asked me what I was doing. She kinda sensed that my left eye was blind, so instead of being to my left she went to my right. We had a small conversation, and I asked her to help me come up with a word that wasn't "create" since I was bound to use it ten times before I came up with another one. She helped me out a bit. She then whispered to my ear, "My husband had an affair and I don't plan on staying married. I have three kids and I'm with my husband's friend”

She gave me her email. Saw her Facebook a week later and found out that she was with her husband the whole time and gave me her email while he was in the bathroom. Her kids are all less than nine years old

Two days later I came out with the two articles I published on the 19th of May

I saw the guy who wanted me to hit on girls with a few days ago and he kinda got pissed at me for not wanting to do that with me. On top of the fact that I did have his number and got even more pissed when I brought it up

 ———————————————————

People do not like rejection. And you know what? I wasn't even trying to hit on anyone. I actually made no effort to do so that Friday night and was genuinely working on two articles simultaneously and pretty much got a girl who couldn't leave me alone and a wife who wanted to cheat behind her husband's back while he was also at the bar with her. Yes, I’m straight. Another guy suggested that I work less at the bar and hit on girls more if I got cock

Well anyway 

———————————————————

Independence means that commanding people is not always an ideal form of obedience because even if it works they will feel a restraint on their independence. Being slow for approval or walking away from it altogether attacks their self-esteem, since people do not like rejection. It was the fact that "Why is this guy not talking to me? I'm fucking hot. What the fuck" then come after me

I'm. Writing. Goddammit. I'm not pretending to do something meaningful, I am actually doing something I love doing. That itself is a reason for intrigue and desire since people wanted to know what I was doing that was more important than their company

I was at the bar… sometime two weeks ago. I was between a 31 year old Yugoslavian girl and a 50 year old guy. Chick said it was her birthday and she used to live in Germany. Guy bought her a beer. He ended up leaving a bit after. Her and I started talking shit about people (we were talking about fake blondes and how only one other girl in the bar was a “real blonde”) and she started talking about how the guy seemed to be some loser who is probably going to have sex with some prostitute

You know… if someone buys a girl a beer I would imagine her being grateful but that's really not the case. She kept asking me if I was writing about her and said she would kill me if I wrote about her. "Are you writing about me?" and I said no. And she kept asking me if I was writing about her (since I have a particular handwriting when it's freestyle so no one can possibly read it) so I wrote legibly after the fifth time she asked me that: "I am with [first name ][last name] and she threatened to kill me if I write about her so now I am writing about her" then told her "Yeah, now I'm writing about you. Happy?" Then she stopped asking me if I was writing about her and ranted about how she knows where I live and she will murder me if I ever blogged about her

Anyway. I guess since she wanted to kill me if I blogged about her I kinda want to blog about her, even if I really don't care. I don't like the fact that me not blogging about her makes me give up my own sense of independence, and similarly, my ego. There is nothing to gain in my silence and… she just didn't want me to talk about her sexuality and yeah, I'll keep that to myself since that's really what she wanted me to do and I don't have anything against her. She was pretty good looking. She kinda did tell me I was kind of an asshole for telling her that she sucked at lying

People do not like being told what to do or believe in, even if it is true. Drugs aren't the best and no, I am not actually writing about you, but saying those things make people want to do drugs and want to kill me once she was finally convinced that I wasn't lying to her

I came from a religious household. My parents are deacons. The one thing about religious people is that we are the biggest freaks. You tell someone to be perfect and they will hate all the things they are supposed to not do so oh guess what? We are going to maintain our individuality and be total freaks

Homecoming senior year I went outside of the house party and took out a couple nugs of weed and said I never smoked weed before and wanted to smoke. And some dude went, "This guy brought his own weed for his first time?" I dunno, do people not do that? Whatever. My ex told me she didn't ever want me to smoke weed so after we broke up I was thinking well fuck her, I want to smoke weed now

People do listen to others at times. These instances happen when obedience is to their personal gain. Work is an easy example: you don't sacrifice self-esteem and trade time for money. But people quit their jobs because at times and even for myself, if we are in a position in which we sacrifice self-esteem, the money making process becomes less fun

People listen and do things for others when their interest is promoted. You can get others to do things for you if you get them to feel good about doing things for you. Obedience is done for self gain. No one obeys without something to gain. Appeal to someone's ideological belief and they will give you a lot of obedience. A pupil will be obedient to their mentor, be it academic, professional, or athletic, but these types of obedience is done because there is a personal gain in obeying. But if there is no already convincing belief that obedience is beneficial to the other person, persuasion is met with adamancy

There were at times when I was at the bar and someone asked me to move down a seat, and I looked at them for three seconds then said, "Sure.” Then I move down a seat. But because I took so long in actually saying yes, they felt bad and simply left. Sometimes they just left the bar altogether. Sometimes they would sit down, think about it for a few seconds, then say, "Yeah, let's go somewhere else.” I would eyeball them up and down and up again and that puts them in suspense. No, I really don't care. But doing that makes them regret asking in the first place. Even if they don’t leave right away they do leave sooner than later

So anyway. Whether I am or not your first emotional coach, you have heard from many people this hard to accept but beneficial piece of advice: "You can't get along or please everyone. Not everyone will like you”

But why. Well duh, uh, people suck, that's just the way life is, you're not perfect and no one is perfect, and so on and so forth. But you know…

The reason why we need to be told this as if it is some kind of news shattering piece of advice is because we all have the innate emotional desire to be liked by everyone

The art of persuasion that is not taught well is that persuasion is successful when someone else wants to be a part of your ideal. Not that your ideal is better than theirs, no matter how much better it might actually be. So let's come back to DARE. Yes, it might be medically and logistically compelling that "drugs are bad", but saying things that are true does not mean that the other person wants to believe in it. And the interesting part of human behavior is that even if it is something that another person believes in for the reasons that you do state, they will simply ignore it if there is no desire on their end to want to be a part of your ideal

Are sweatshops inhumane? Of course they are. Do I want to think about it? Absolutely not

But back to knowing and understanding: It is not that we do not know what is best for ourselves or for others, but there is a psychological nature in finding an emotionally compelling need to be the best for ourselves and for others. We are so intelligent to the sense that we know what is the best for us, but we are not computers or machines. We have emotional drives that put thought into action or create thoughts in general

We do in a sense, rebel against our own knowledge of goodness because goodness is not a linear universal ideal but a collection of unique goods

As a kid I had the belief, "I can't wait until I'm all grown up," then become an adult so that me and others feel: "I wish I was a kid all over again”

Beyond human mortality, there is a reason why kids want to be adults and adults want to be kids: freedom. There is a freedom to do anything you want as an adult, along with the power and authority that comes with it and there is also a freedom as a kid that an adult does not have. Above all, children have a sense of misplaced immortality and yes, the health aspect of such things will completely go out the door

Adults are free to be financially and logistically independent in their lifestyle, but there is a trade that is made for those things to happen. Obviously work and social properness are a couple. Kids do have a sense of freedom that some of their actions are not subject to immediate repercussions. As an adult you might not be able to speak your mind as freely as you want and you may be fired in a single day's worth of events

To put into terms that I hope is convincing, you can be emo as a teenager, but if you're emo as an adult, people will be a little unsettled by that. Yes, I used to be emo-ish while I was in middle school

There is no life in which you can be free in all ways and aspects of life. You cannot work without work itself be a form of restraint and you cannot speak freely as speech itself is subject of reputational interrogation

There is always a trade-off between Freedom and Order. Allowing all forms of freedom to be executed without restraint creates chaos. In simple terms, we have speed limits and traffic signals because if all drivers were not constrained to some universal set of rules there would be automobile accidents that happen constantly. So we sacrifice the ability to drive as freely as we want to maintain order on the roads

Such is taxation. It is in one of my teacher's words, a form of theft. Legal theft. If taxation did not happen, then we would not have roads to begin with, so there is chaos that results without an infringement executed by the necessary theft of money. But since we do consider those things necessary for the individual and collective good, we call that taxation. The collective good will further an individual, but there is a reason why individual contributions are given with feelings reserved

As much as we do like the fact that we are safe on the road or have roads to begin with, does it not frustrate us when we have the urge to speed a little bit or hold on to more money than we are told to? For logical reasons we do appreciate the goodness that results in some of our freedom taken away in an obligatory sense, but there is a resentment that comes form it. Not logically, but emotionally

So be it the concept of work in general, the freedoms of a youth to an adult, the goodness between traffic laws and the thrill of speeding, and the necessity of government programs and taxation, the common universal truth is that goodness is dynamic. We give up apples for oranges but want as many apples and oranges as possible. We want to be as free and ignorant as a child while responsible and commanding as an adult. We want to drive as recklessly as we wish without crashing our car. We want the government to spend as much money as possible for us while giving little ourselves. But between apples and oranges, the two do fight to co-exist

People in general all want the same thing. Asking for something that everyone else wants in and of itself is not unique or emotionally compelling. Differences start to arise from the person behind the things they ask for

Between apples and oranges, mentors and pupils, and even relationships, people do things out of choice. They pick the best option that fulfills them. What this article argues is that it is not so much that the choice they pick is indeed the best one, but that it is the better one. And if they are not given a choice, they will reject it because it was not a choice that they got to choose themselves. The reason for this is because choices are the expression of freedom and free will. Taking away the option of choice becomes an attack at that person's individuality. All healthy relationships are with someone who wants to be with you, and vice versa

Taxation and traffic laws are permissible because in a democratic society in which we vote for the people who made those laws, we maintain the integrity of choice

We all want as much freedom and happiness as possible. But sacrificing a certain kind of freedom will still maintain individuality if freedom is given up out of choice. By willing to forgo some aspects of freedom out of free will, we still consider ourselves free people

Between freedom and order, the comparison is similar to apples and oranges

 ———————————————————

When it comes down to sports, the better player on whatever team did better in a play partly because they had better positioning. That is only less than half of it. When it comes to sports, there is the concept of juking a defender. This is true for all sports, including MMA

Juking is a form of faking a motion so that it throws off the defender. This is the idea that the other person does not know when the juker themself will actually make a move. By faking left they might copy. When faking left, if the defender does act on it, they may lack the immediate necessity in acting on the juker's next action. Juking is done well when they make moves so that the defender is not completely able to act on what they immediately see. By taking away certainly, the defender themself becomes easy to maneuver

In a metaphorical sense, by acting in a way that the other person is uncertain about you, they will want to figure you out. Of course, if an athlete only fakes or mostly fakes, then the defender is comfortable in the fact that most actions are not to be considered seriously and that the athlete is themself dancing

There is a push-pull technique that is best for all relationships. People want apples and oranges. If you want to take away their apples they will want to keep their oranges; take away their oranges they will want to keep their apples. You need to take away their apples for oranges and take away their oranges for apples alternatively as times as this will result in wanting the person to long for both apples and oranges. This can help build a strong form of desire, as an opposite form of desire is boredom

People want things they don’t have. People in the Southwest or in the desert want rain once in a while and those with a lot of rain like the people in Seattle want sun. Desire is not simply a want for things that are inherently good, but things that are good and not possessed. A child wants to be an adult because they are not an adult, and an adult wants to be like a child because they are not a child. And fascinating is the fact that everyone is a child while young and an adult as time passes, with time passing evenly for all of us

People work at things with more intensity when such things are away from them. A carrot in front of the horse is the simple idea that the horse will go after the carrot. If the carrot is too far it seems undesirable, but if the carrot is actually in their mouth they will consider it theirs. Desire is the same. A crowded restaurant will be more successful because people are curious as to why it is crowded, and another restaurant that is more spacious and has more people can be less desirable because it is less crowded. The bathroom at a house party with eight people is more fun than the living room with 30. Desire is not a measurement of how valuable something is, it is a comparison of the alternative. People are curious in why people like what is liked. Businesses that are successful are so because they both create and fulfill a need. You can have the highest quality food or gadget but it is the business of marketing to create people's desire for such things so that people want and buy it

To tie it back to that certain night at the bar, the girl I met wanted to know why I told her to fuck off and fought for my attention and wrote her name down because I would not give it after all the tricks in her book, that were indeed obvious signs of attraction, didn't work. The guy after her found that awesome and when I turned him down on hitting on girls with him, the wife close to me was curious herself as to why I even turned him down while she was with her husband. This all happened the same night

And there was no ulterior reason for my behavior other than that I was working on two articles which I did publish shortly after

I enjoy writing. There really was no bigger ulterior motive or lack of desire of attention. I was writing. I was doing what I love. That was all there was to it

———————————————————

[1] I hope everyone has a good 4th of July!
