Short Break
Amateur Philosophy

I used to do cross country when I was younger and one time I brought a burrito to the meet and ate it before the race. My teammates were kinda bewilderingly amused that I would do that and not that I was the worst though I wasn't the best, I did alright though it definitely wasn't fun running on a full stomach. Some advice out there holds that athletes should eat whole grain foods no shorter than 4 hours before a race and not drink water any shorter than 2 hours beforehand

It’s a fun sport and I did ultimate frisbee for a bit after that, with weightlifting as a whole. With exercising it’s nice when you're on the grind. Once you get started to feel tired, you kinda keep pushing and eventually don't mind the exhaustion and all as much as you keep feeling it. As much as you don't feel the pain when you are running or when you're fighting MMA, it feels extremely exhausting once you're done to find the energy to feel at that level again for a while. Perhaps it’s the adrenaline. Though with all forms of workout and sports of all kinds, once you drink an entire bottle of water to cap off the session, you're more or less done for a while

Though this isn't the best causally derived comparison of the other productive activities in life, I'd like to see it that way. It's nice to have a short break in between doing strenuous work, but if you take too long a break you might be a bit too relaxed to be able to tap into that high level of energy you were at right away, depending on how long "too long" is. Mondays are the worst, Fridays are the best. Well, weekends are the best and if it’s one thing to dread work as a whole then so be it, though when choice is involved, breaks that are too long prevent the mentality of being able to get right on going, hindering momentum and energy

There are some forms of energy that I find important in and individual. Self esteem - which I’ll talk about soon - is a critical value to have. Another form I will talk about here is willpower. There are some ideas of what willpower and self esteem are that I'm sure you the reader know what they look like, though for sake of writing this article, it is important to understand how much willpower you have. Willpower is important with things such as hitting on people, since as much as people talk about confidence, even before that comes willpower. You can be confident "towards someone" to "around people in general" and while both forms are important to understand, one factor that pervades between them is your own personal willpower that you carry on through life with. If you don't have much willpower, there probably won't be much confidence in any form

Willpower is important with self motivation. Willpower is probably the same thing as self motivation. This can be a short paragraph that seems lazy to throw out there though explaining this may look even sillier

Willpower is important with self esteem. Self esteem helps people find their own voice, form their own opinions, choose what is important to them and the kinds of people they consider to bring value to their life, and the like. There are a lot of people who don't have self esteem and get disappointed with discouragement and teases and are extremely self-conscious and work too hard to be accepted by others. Having self esteem, a value that one finds in themselves, is important to have. When one has self esteem, they make choices of what in life is important to them from the inside, and when one acts having self esteem in making their choices, they also make the choice of what happiness means to them. I haven't found the most people out of all to talk about things such as self esteem, and if there was a beating around the bush by mentioning the superficial it has some prevalent relations, though all those things are ultimately for self esteem. What self esteem truly does look like is when one makes the decision to be self-compassionate, self-loving, self-supporting, and self-admiring. For whatever reasons that may happen to be. Not that whatever happens in the outside world doesn't matter since it may not be the best thing to be too much of a narcissist when everyone in the room has the urge to beat you up and all. Self esteem can devolve into arrogance and if you're an arrogant person like I can be at times, cool to know, though it's not as if within every arrogant person there wasn't the possibility of doubt asked by they themselves. People who don't have self esteem might also be looking at how much others have, finding those who don't have much and figure out how to sleep with them or get them to do things, and some find those who got too much to be too big of a shadow of a reminder of what theirs look like. Even for "normal people" I've seen this a lot too. Even if we don't think about why everything in life matters, ultimately everything is related to the final evaluation of how it affect's one's self esteem

This is important when you think about the animalistic nature of humans. Again, all people, as sophisticated as they seemingly are, are all animals. Animals don't have money or cars and the likes of such, but we find those things to somehow be related to our animalistic nature, and that is partly because all those things affect the way we view our socialization status and ability with self esteem being attached to that. Self esteem and any threats to it will set off our flight or flight nature and all the superficial things we intellectually deem to be superficial do somehow relate to our animalistic nature because we strive to survive not merely only physically, but physiologically as within our emotional mechanisms that are complex to understand we fight to protect the survival of our emotional self esteem. Self esteem and willpower are naturally animalistic traits. Any animal that doesn't have willpower and gives up on migrating or foraging and the like won't progress within the ecosystem, though for humans on a further level any force that affects our self esteem affects our willpower, and since self esteem is essentially security in an animalistic perspective that which we operate to survive and maintain or willpower in and of itself being the mechanism in which our fight or flight reactions end up being how they are, it is crucial to understand within the world of imperfection how one finds their self esteem and how one maintains their willpower. Loss of hope, depression, determination, confidence, optimism, acceptance, gratitude and forgiveness are all sorts of values, but as sophisticated as they seem to be, are made up of two animalistic traits: willpower and security [1]

I got carried away. When it comes to taking short breaks, what this article is trying to state is that taking breaks everyone knows you should do so you don't get exhausted, though from me I hold the belief that psychologically it is harder to start or restart than it is to keep going when it comes to willpower. Taking breaks can be a relief, though taking too long of a break can be too comfortable that it can cause one to find a hard time to go without it again. When it comes to the idea of "keep on pushing forward in life", it's easy to fall into the routine of always wanting another break or a weekend or another bottle of liquor, and while everyone needs days off and even three day weekends hypothetically sound cool even to me, as much as it's natural to find Mondays being the worst, within your own personal drive is your own sense of willpower. And without giving too vague of a cheer to "let's all have willpower", I find the momentum of keeping one foot in front of the other and the self esteem that comes from willpower, can perhaps be maintained in making sure that you don't take breaks that are too long

———————————————————

[1] Plato proposed the idea that all matter is made up of four elements: Fire, Earth, Water, and Wind. I am somewhat trying to model sophisticated ideas with basic natural elements. Yes, I know chemistry definitely exists
