Staying Busy
Life Improvement

All character values come from yourself and most of them stem from what you do with your time

People utilize a sense of psychoanalysis which can be insensitive to do and point out. While it is not something to do often as judging people and making assumptions unnecessarily makes you a jerk as you'll find trouble if you look for it and keep staring at it, if you are open to critique you can learn about yourself from the people who criticize you, depending on how earnest they were about it. One big "real dumb shallow" level of analysis young kids do is this thing where they don't text people back right away as it makes them seem desperate (if it comes to flirting) or dull (as they aren't up to much or have anything to do). There are a handful of people who do look lesser on people who do respond too quickly and there are others who are more than happy to be talking to you. We could hypothetically talk about if this is annoying or practical though this would be a waste of time as the fundamental conclusion is to indeed be the person who is up to things. Well, I do remember when I was pretty young I would hit someone up and maybe a half hour later text again "hello?" because I wonder if they got my message or not and I see how that kinda stuff can come across as off-putting or unnecessary. Of course, being this petty is completely unproductive if you are talking to your boss or your coworkers (or even your own friends) and are trying to maintain an image in probably all the wrong ways. There is a time to show off and there is a time to not be concerned about how you are looking. People nowadays err to this notion that it makes you cool to be "aloof" and "not give a fuck", and while there are facets to this that hold water often enough, being responsive and being in control of situations, others, and yourself while being proactive in your relationships is the next step once you're done pretending you don't give a fuck

At the end of the day, if it came down to thinking about it then it's not worth the trouble. There are rules to the game and you might need to put some work in it, however what's more important to you and of their image of you is putting your time in the right places. If you're sitting around doing nothing for a while then yeah, you will think about how long it's going to take for them to respond, but if you are swimming in the pool for fun or working out, then there isn't going to be a way to be hit up and you're not really going to even afford to give a damn how long it took them, or if they did at all. Most people have this notion with sex and yeah it makes sense. You might want to play hard-to-get and that's better than being desperate but once you get past merely the whole pickup scene, being a busy person does you good when you want to live a wholesome life

Being the person who can't even afford the energy in wasting your thoughts and time does you good. It is ideal to focus on yoursef and only a fraction of your time and energy in individual relations. There's only one of you and a whole lot of them anyway

So yeah, instead of working harder on impressing people, it is more impactful to work on yourself since after all, it is "you" that other people are dealing with. The reason why anything that bugs you might bug you is because you care so much about it. And yes, while there are a lot of valid reasons to care though when you are bugged more than you want to, it’s because you care too much about it and that is also, in the metaphor of "responding too quickly to a text" is that "you don't have much else to be caring about instead". For better or worse. If someone close to you wasn't part of your life anymore then you do (and should) care about it a bit. Though in getting better is to find other things or people to care about. The reason why a World Class role model is hard to shake is because they have a lot of other things they care about to not even afford the time to care about petty bullshit that is thrown at them. Eh maybe they do deep inside. And sure they too throw shade and diss and punk on people, but they are efficient with their time because they got a whole lot going on. If you want to break down how you feel about individual instances of events that happen, it has to do with how much you deep inside carry on with your life. While we put on the best image of ourselves to others, what is more important than impressing others is impressing ourselves. People will like us if we like ourselves. People such as myself have this constant urge to opt for what makes us look likable, but what people like is whatever I would like to see in myself as well. There are a lot of people who talk their way through things or in and out of situations, though you can't talk your way out of looking a bit over-attached and crazy if you keep texting someone and telling them that they should like you more and actually saying that to them word by word. If someone doesn't like you, you could waste time talking about how much they suck or you could be awesome and make your haters hate you more by being happy and happier than before. That is done by making strides in your own life that doesn’t have to do with them. As analogy, if you are fighting with someone and you want to win, you could either hit them more times and spend your time and energy doing that, or you could leave and get a bigger bat and hit them with that instead. Let's say the outcome worked out and it took the same amount of time and energy: you would like the second option since after all that, you ended up with a bigger bat. This is also how we should address life’s problems. You could complain about it more and spend more time and energy talking things out or process internally, but after doing this once or twice the third time around you should just leave and go get a bigger bat to hit your life problems with

I see the TV show Shark Tank quite a bit and there are a handful of (what do you call them, clients? Contestants?) prospective business partners who have a good idea, walk in, and make their pitch with a lot of confidence just to be shown the door because they just started and still have a bit to learn about conducting business and are told "come back later" or "it looks tough sorry" or whatever. And even if it wasn't a bad idea and it was indeed an underdeveloped business or it seems like it won't work out, they talk with confidence because they actually devoted a lot of time and energy and passion in the business. The business at hand notwithstanding, they ought to feel confident if they prided themselves in putting a lot of time and energy in it. There is a concept of the art of war in which generals in history commentated or recognized that an army that was not moving for longer stretches of time or generally idle had less fighting power. An army that sat around too much fought with less fervor than an army that was constantly active because the latter had their fighting spirits high. So with prospective Shark Tank prospects, even if the idea sucked they had a fighting spirit. People such as myself don't particularly enjoy conflict, but conflict should be something I brush off as I show people what I am made of. And yeah sure, I did go off the hook in the past to eventually realize and accept that everyone has problems. What does me good is to not get pissed when shit is given to me, but rather show off who I am inside and develop my character personality

For professional reasons, being busy does you good. For sexual reasons, being busy or pretending to be is part of the game. Another reason why it does good beyond a lifestyle judgement is because people are more receptive if you give them space. Unless you are dealing with people who already like you good enough and have good synergy with or you’re around those who like a go-getter attitude. The bigger benefit is that by staying busy you develop momentum and seem like and indeed are an active person who to others, too busy to afford the time to text back right away, too busy to care about petty bullshit, and also generally busy to be taking notice of things that need to be done such as cleaning the oven or flossing your teeth as you are overall an active person. Then you will run into life pains and disappointments and drama and bullshit and how much that affects you, not just at the end of the day but throughout your day, has to do with how you are spending your time. You feel accomplished by staying occupied, you have higher energy levels when you keep yourself occupied, people respect others who keep themselves occupied, and you have a better mentality when you focus on things that are for the better and less of things that hold you back when you stay occupied. For example, if I can't wait for the weekend then it will seem to be coming a lot slower if I'm not particularly doing much with my time; however if I am overloaded then I would be wanting more time. Patience is a virtue and while it can be a choice that we demonstrate, for the most part it comes naturally if we were generally busy as hell to begin with. We teach patience as a choice - and yes, you could choose to be impatient - but when it comes to genuinely being a patient person it just looks like patience because in actuality I was spending my time on everything other than waiting for time to go faster

When you stay busy and have a handful to deal with and text back to others maybe "a little too quickly," you are still the kind of person who couldn't care less about what they thought about it. And when you stay busy you have a mindset in which other aspects of life - including your own character values - benefit from as well

———————————————————

This is regarding character values, as a different kind of value are known as ideological values, which concern your worldview 
