Stressing about Stress
Life Improvement

Once in a while I come across someone who is giving me a load of unnecessary bullshit with the conversation clearly heading to "fucking nowhere anytime soon" so I sometimes do a little thing called ignoring them. For a handful of conversations you don't quite want to give an intellectual response because if what they said was really idiotic, you don't want to respond in a completely serious and intelligent manner because you would be accepting that what they said was profound and they did indeed deserve a well thought out response in return. If you're great at debating you could go rapid fire and win an argument with pure logic and brute force, though a simple solution in abating a dumb conversation is to participate in it less and respond with the fewest words possible while being compelling with efficiency

There are endless unique kinds of conversations and you can go many ways about it, but the overall idea to keep in mind is to not deal with an idiot in a way that hands them credibility. When you give credibility to a proponent who shouldn't have any, you make your own goal of argumentation a bit more difficult. Hopefully for myself and for you as well we don’t run into these types of situations as much as we can but know the tools to our disposal when needed. For the sake of this conversation lets call these people we might run into, "pricks"

The stress in our lives are like pricks and there can be additional stress when we stress about stress. Like with actual pricks themselves, you can make a pain in the ass situation you call stress a bit worse the more you focus on it and give it credibility. Once you give credibility to stress your stress becomes more stressful so try not to give your stress more credibility and effect than it already has. There isn't really a such thing as a stress-free life, so what is important is to let stress fade away like the prick you shove to the side instead of concentrating on it and driving yourself crazy. You don't want to magnify stress or blow things out of proportion, overanalyze, grow paranoid or skyrocket anxiety

Regarding anxiety: when it turns bad it is a sort of a worry in which you are double guessing shit. You double guess yourself, you double guess the report you wrote, what tomorrow will look like, if so and so likes you in a particular way or not if they even give a shit, if what happened was the best way to have gone about things. The fundamental notion in dealing with anxiety is that you don't want to keep "thinking about it" meaninglessly since that accomplishes nothing and makes your anxiety worse by definition - triple guessing a cycle of double guessing - so the best course of action is to entirely ignore it or completely address it and dispel it. For the most part, anxiety is a natural feeling we have while watching TV or looking forward to going on vacation or the sort, but when anxiety is crippling it resembles fear (which is a topic for another day). There are tools also known as coping mechanisms and if they work then all the better, but the one thing to not do with anxiety is to dwell on it

Stress comes in a variety of forms and another common one is anger. Especially while taking part in an argument you ideally don't want to be angry. Anger, like all emotions, exist when they arise and are valid, and while anger can at times be a good motivator you should decouple anger with your actions. You should at times put your anger aside when confronting the source of it. Raising the current bet, turning the tables, working and working out to be the shit can all be done out of anger but you shouldn't do all those things with anger. Whenever you have negative emotions you can let it hover above you and follow you like your shadow, but that’s different from having a general sense of motivation and drive (which are good things) but that only exists when you decouple certain emotions from behaviors to begin with. After decoupling emotions we can address the emotion that is now isolated. While there are many books on how to do that that again is after the initial and primary step of decoupling and compartmentalizing

The biggest stress is stress itself, so don't try and get stuck in a loop of constantly aggrandizing stress, but if you are stuck in a loop of stress cyclically compounding on itself, break out of it. This requires a significant intentional effort, action, or resolve. Emotions are a fundamental part of life so this happening is all things considered natural, though keep in mind that not all stress is "bad" as some stress is necessary, beneficial, and proper. Seeing stress in a completely negative light is not wholesome and drains a person. As emotions are a vital part of life, have your emotions work with you and not against you
