Sugar and Spice
Life Improvement

The goal in conversation is not to speak but to be heard

Language is a tool for individuals to communicate with others. While it is a common tool, it is "a" tool, not "the" tool. Humans are animalistic by nature and like all other animals, interact with non-verbal communication. This method is effective with animals and nonetheless not any less relevant with people, as much as talking is undeniably powerful

For the most part, verbal communication helps express ideas with logic and intellect, while non-verbal communication can convey beliefs with emotion and charm (not to say that this can't be done with verbal communication). We absorb verbal communication with listening and reading while we receive non-verbal communication by looking or feeling physically. Presentation, posture, expression, gestures, the proximity and presence of an individual utilizing volume and speed along with accents blended with vocabulary not restricted to jargon, slang, and nomenclature are attributes of expression. There are many aspects to communication, verbal and non-verbal. The weight of speech and the gravity of the situation are only a couple additions to the complexity of communication. These traits cannot be underestimated as both emotion and understanding drive people and motive us to do the things we do

We think what makes sense to us makes universal sense with talking things out being the solution. However, non-verbal communication and the flavors of verbal communication have a potent effect that is not any less important though we may not be acknowledging their significance to their fullest credit. It shows when we are passionate, anxious, melancholy, or generally in any particular state. Especially when we are emotional does our exchange of communication have more to do than merely words, considering that deep within our animalistic nature is the notion that we are motivated by a nature that cannot be contained or translated solely by words themselves. Communication has many facets to it and language only makes up part of it (as language is a sophisticated matter)

Communication can also be non-direct, as with insinuation. A picture means a thousand words so a smile or a gesture can also speak volumes. With verbal communication you can also insinuate an idea with open ended questions or statements or leading on regrading a matter, or expressing through ideas in which the completeness of the exchange was filled in by the listener. On the other hand, being assertive or aggressive is also effective as one can go without the fluff or vagueness with the possibility of misinterpretation or wondering if the point didn't get across. Emotional solidity or detachment each have their uses on top of using verbal and non-verbal communication. A lot to consider, as it seems

Now, this is all brought up for the main objective of discussion that whatever forms of communication you do use is to make not just a point but an effect. Like with special effects in cinema and photography, how the viewer perceives the matter and is affected is the end goal. Making a point is a sophisticated matter while making an effect addresses our animalistic nature, which we have. Sugar and Spice help make food taste better, and just like it is hard to "see" from a picture how food tastes just by looking at it, it is also troublesome to regard words manifesting communication to their fullest potential when the evaluation was purely derived from linguistics alone

Like again with personality traits, different forms of communication have flavors of their own, each with their own form of energy and efficacy
