Talk Less, Do More
Life Improvement

  

How much do your words weigh?

It takes a bit of stepping in another’s shoes to understand why this is more important than being objectionably or subjectively correct. It does take a bit of an acceptance of the colder facts of life but seeing the world in this light will do you better. Since from our point of view, what we set as our values seem ideal to us and even if it was agreeable to another it really doesn't do them much good as a default. So overall, when you see yourself as the way others see you, you realize how to address the matters at hand and improve as a person

I can rattle off some instances in which I deeply cared about an issue: there is a car accident. So as I drive by I can subjectively 100% think it is unfortunate and that is all I might think about it. In the instance the drivers expressed their frustration, you know even while agreeing with all parties involved there really isn't going to be the same level of frustration I give on my end to theirs. Of course they will be more frustrated than I am. That's how it is

What is the merit of being right? Well obviously be a good person for the sake of humanity but in wanting to persuade someone else that you are right, there is a bit of togetherness that exists or wants to be built. When you think about the way you personally and even humanely treated others to when you see how others treat you too, we all should understand that usually others will feel it differently than we do

And for even those close to us outside a random car on the street, I'm sure that I miss my grandparents to a compassionate degree but no one misses them more than the people closer to them. So for all ways, even in the deepest forms of companionship it gets to me less

So without mentioning the more dickish parts of people's behaviors as they’re all too common, everything is going to get to you differently compared to everyone else. Now the flipside is good too, since you might be thinking wow it’s really disappointing to hear someone cynical arguing about how others don't care but it is beneficial when you think about how others might care less about the mishaps you had that you might be thinking still

Talking about being right doesn't achieve everything automatically because being right merely means that the current situation can be seen in an understandable light. The forward thinking mentality concerns future possibilities more so over being "right" as an absolute, while the past to a degree does influence people’s mentality and optimism. We think of the past as objective places at objective times with objective people objectively doing actions or not, but our past to others is a subjective idea they have of you. To take this to an unrealistic extreme: if I read you the dictionary cover to cover I would objectively be 100% factually correct and maybe you would learn a word or two but the subjective idea of me is what you do go off of. While I should not bother with obvious everyday examples in which people do talk to make a point in the majority of numerical circumstances, the bigger questions can't be handled that way. Though it is a skill to converse in a way ever so convincing but that is an art

What is the goal of conversation? It is to win a point, or find an opportunity? You can win a conversation and not have anything come out of it other than the “pat on the back that you are right”, or are you trying to look for something to come out of it? As a mathematical engineer type of academic and maybe within my own family relations as times, I would want to win a conversation. Maybe within some settings yeah, this is the way to go, but it took me some years to realize that there is more to “winning” a conversation that has to do with being right

Take it this way: when you think of a movie or television show, your first thoughts are the highlights of the film as opposed to thinking about them in chronological order. Maybe the people who made those shows do think about the progression of the production, but as a viewer the first things come to mind as opposed to having lived the stage. So we also view our own lives in sequential order and put the value of everything in an intellectually thought out evaluation, but it's not going to be that everyone thinks about your car accident all the same. What we feel about ourselves isn’t always going to be the same emotional rubric others use on us. Unless you're along the lines of a job interviewer who really thinks about everything and checking it twice, then it’s going to be how most people act off the way they think and the way they think is based on you, but it really cant be all that of the entirety of your person the way you see it. I could study Latin but what good does it do for others? So in the instance I knew Latin, it might not do you a damn thing and for virtually 99% of my life I won't need to use Latin. Extending the fact that Latin is a body of other facts is that its worth to us is how applicable knowing Latin is, then value that in the grander scheme of things. So let's say for example that I was fluent in Spanish too; that would be ideal because Spanish is more applicable than Latin so there is more value in knowing Spanish over Latin (which has its own highly appreciative merits). That might also be the way we need to view our values not just the way we see it, but more importantly, how other people view it. Objectively both are complex languages and they might be factually full of knowledge, but what others can make use of it is what we need to also understand too

Whatever seems like Spanish to us might always sound like Latin to someone else (Latin America as an ironic pun). It shouldn’t be an objective centric “ask google to translate it for us” since googling something and reading it off didn't cross the bridge in how a lot of things are beyond a lack of understanding. Doctors and Lawyers do indeed further understanding in the admirable journey in intellectual awareness, however that is also for application. Truth or correctness, ultimately is something we use to apply in our lives since I would care more about the development of the next vaccine more so than if someone found out a way to make a better hair dye as someone who never dyed his hair. So maybe someone else sees Spanish over Latin and to me it seems Latin over Spanish. And you know, maybe with an applicable appreciation others can get to know it for future knowledge for a tip to pull out in case knowing helps, so how applicable someone feels about hair dye is always going to be all over the board. Maybe I buy the patent and make the next product line. There are really many ways it can be applicable and they can be true, but all things seemingly deemed true won’t all feel or look all the same. Sure, our friends and the people close to us may care more than a random stranger, but even at times a random stranger can care more

It is overall a healthy way of not having to (since pure conformity is not ideal) always do what others expect of us, but understanding that view in its rawest form is insight that helps us navigate and manage better. There is no good in letting others completely dictate your life even in the most passive forms such as ideal self expectation, but seeing that view gives insight. As an analogy when you play a video game on the map you see pretty much not a whole lot until you travel there and discover it. Life is like that. It doesn't really mean that you have to go and stay there, but if you get a feel of the area then its nice to know. You know, in a real life example such as "do you like tacos" well you might wanna know beforehand before you take someone who is allergic to tacos. Maybe it’s s fine if they don't even like tacos. It is more wholesome of a life to be around people who differ enough to awe and allowing more flaws in broadening the things you get out of life by being exposed to them. You liking tacos should matter less the more you appreciate the view others have of tacos. It can be indeed that you own a 2 star Michelin restaurant and you make the best tacos and be proud of that but if they don't want it then it’s fine if it is true that your tacos are indeed kickass and that’s it. Acting blind or narrow sighted and not seeing the full picture takes away the realization of how being valid maybe gets you halfway there. The first half is being right since there are such things as a dumb question, but the other half is seeing how applicable it is to us and others and knowing them both in their unique ways. Some things that are right may not be applicable right away (ideally everyone should know how to change a tire even though they might not get a flat tire immediately) and some kinda not that true notions are pretty applicable (when you chew gum you have a 3% increase in thinking you're the shit)

So to go back, it is the idea of you whether those differences exist or not and less about making a T chart and making a grade, even if a T chart was made. The highlight scenes of the movie about you they apply to the thought of you and further affect how they treat you. People might be extremely emotional and indeed so, but most people are also emotionally practical people. And emotionally-practically, the final product is what you live with. It seems that some people are either practical or emotional, but to be emotional in a practical sense you might see how not all of the objective truth went into their overall construct that did morph a bit more before manifesting in the actual relation with others, so being obsessed with the first two factors more so over the end goal is a waste of time and energy when being excessively invested in behavior such as overthinking or over-talking when they may not be making a difference in the grander scheme of things

And yes, this seems ever so ideal on paper to have some psychic powers to fit everything together, though while it takes a lot to appreciate all facets ever so possible, sometimes it’s s nice to not pry and micromanage. So on our end what does us best is knowing that being right is only half the value of truth, so instead of talking about being right we do things since the whole concept of applying what we know is that you do it. It’s one thing to be a journalist when that's kinda your literal job talking about things, but as a personal way of life you're gonna do something

I could talk about how to make a tiramisu and it would be ideal I made one. Good communication is an art and a skill, but talking and being revolutionary won’t be more important than using what you know and doing something with it. So how much do your words weigh? If applicability was the focus on hand, the overall way to view our words is knowing how applicable it is to others, and beyond how “applicable” seems so utilitarian of a word for a workplace environment, all ways going words can be better seen when considering the weight of the words you say. And what might take a bit of time to accept is the fact that the weight of our words has more to do than just being correct or not. The weight of your words is what others listen and feel and react to, and it is the focus on the weight of our words over merely a typewriter transcript of it that we need to holistically understand regarding the power of words

So in relation with conversing with the people around us, you can also get more when you actively do more and focus on the person who says the words when you wonder in ways to do better. A lot of things will cause irritation though it will be better all ways considered to finesse the weight of our words than waste time or energy in things that won’t change the more time or energy was put in it, if it starts to feel like that. Everyone enjoys it when others do things and talking is really only halfway there. So when you also start to value actions over conversations on yourself too, it'll do you good in freeing yourself from the obligations you sometimes don't have to do with the objective truth, as good or bad they can come and betters you as a person in getting what you want. I’m not exactly saying “shut up” since talking is a form of actively doing something, but when talking doesn’t seem to do anything, then its a better idea to just do something than keep yourself stuck talking. Short term and long term, it works out more often than not

Though of course, concerning you yourself. A lot of empathy is not applicable to you but it does others good. And sometimes for wanting to help others, sometimes people would rather not want help. There are values with worth and there are virtues that will override the way you do things for better or worse, and the latter can give weight to our words. So if there was a difference beyond semantics between values and virtues, sure I'll say virtues can have some special case scenarios (love can be evil) but it will always be more worthwhile to actively do something about it than just think and talk about it

Humor and flirting are two good examples of how the weight of words make up most of it
