Time and Place
Life Improvement

  

There isn't a one size fits all solution to the problems in life that don't concern food or drink

The bulk of advice concerns steps to take or a course of action in which you may be able to achieve the things you want or desire. Learning what to do when you are unsure helps. Hearing of what to do is a quarter of improvement, doing it is the other quarter, but that isn't everything that encapsulates all the steps of execution so that you may be a better person. It takes finesse in factoring when and where to exercise your full potential

Life isn't a comparable to an instruction manual that you may get at IKEA in which you perform certain steps in sequential order and that everything in life will fall into place because you tipped over the first piece of dominoes. To a degree, yes, you may greatly benefit from a nudge, a moment of clarity, or a flash of a light bulb above the top of your head, but there is more to change than things happening by seeing courses of actions take place. Even with making seemingly right decisions and actions, you may not always get the results you want and have room for improvement because timing and location are important as well

Part of the Existential field of thought is the idea of The Other: the idea that for all the ways an individual views themselves as a being with a mind that sees the world from their viewpoint, contemplating their emotions and questions of life, everyone else they see are just as existential as they are even though it seems like we see and act as if it was "me, them, and everyone else”

The advice saying "do this" or "do that" is a simplified view of how change works. Obviously there won't be much change if you do nothing but there are many factors in play. As a toddler, I was told to shake orange juice before pouring it. I did that as an idiot four year old to a two liter soda and it fizzed as soon as I opened it. Yeah, there is more to drinks than "shake before opening" because you don't want to be shaking all drinks that come in a bottle. Some pieces of advice can be useful and helpful. There are simple and deep adages that can be great guides for a lot of the dilemmas and uncertainty in life, but for every adage there is likely another adage that is the opposite and just as intriguing and deep. Advice helps, but they don't work all the time, and sometimes they can result in more problems than before on the off-chance. There might be controversial and bad advice that works out better than conventional wisdom

There is a reaction to every action. That is why we do things in the first place. We aren't going to go around doing things that don't result in something happening and more so if we know they won't. Sometimes there are reactions that don't happen as intended. Simple enough. To bring into conversation philosophical ideas based on the metaphysical: if actions have reactions, that events cause another event, some other event probably caused the former or current event. If the ideas of science from physics, chemistry, to biology tend to promote the idea that atomic and microscopic events are predicable and replicable, then surely this should hold true with events that happen on a larger scale. Of course, we can blueprint how object alpha hits object bravo with the implications of a single simple event, but the notion of certainty becomes less understandable when we try to use this kind of attitude towards things such as the human mind, though researchers are trying to with some success

I digress. To bring back to how knowing this puts individual improvement in a different light: if you hit a pool ball with the cue ball and know how the ball you hit would travel, you should have this view with your own being. If you are the pool ball, then there are other cue balls out there colliding with you which influence your actions, your beliefs, your mentality, your character and attitude. Certainly people aren't going to surrender events in their life to merely the people and events that happen around them, and once they become aware of this they might change what they do to take control of their lives and change direction. But if external factors influence a person and they aren't fond of themselves as much as they would like, then there ought to be an action to their own reaction, that is, be both the cue ball to their own pool ball. Or in summary, self motivation. Although there are good people and events that happen that do shape people for the better. So sometimes there would be a cue ball that strikes a pool ball right into the pocket in a way a person would like to. It is blessed to run into those situations often, but unfortunately this does not happen all the time

Perhaps life does feel like the falling of dominoes. Oh, in hindsight something happened in which you ended up chucking a vase at the wall and your friends and lovers left you so you drank to cope with the feeling while snatching at opportunities and whims all too quickly and making worse decisions because your mind was too occupied to think things through so you don't quite mind of whatever else happened, then getting a little erratic at the small things so that you become more of a stubborn asshole than you were in the first place. Perhaps some breakthrough or lucky encounter put you in a better place and you thought of how it all worked out to wonder what was next in store. And at the realization of all this, you thought of all the things that happened before you smashed that vase in the first place

What did I do? What did they do? What could I do better next time? What could they do better next time? As if this wasn't a lot to think about in the first place, thinking about the time and place of what happened or will happen and perhaps changing them the next time around, could help

There is a piece of advice that I don't like anymore: "The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result". The more I thought about it recently, I find it extremely misleading. This quote was made by Einstein, and yeah, he's a freaking genius in a topic called physics. Physics. In science, if you perform an experiment in a controlled environment, get a result, and perform the exact same experiment within identical parameters, yes you will end up with the exact same result. While this holds true for the sciences this doesn't quite hold true with psychology, history, and business. Yes, it was a metaphor: people aren't round emotional-less spherical objects. So let's just put on the side whatever Einstein said for the time being. The founder of KFC had many failed business but he kept trying and eventually build one of the most prominent lasting restaurants that America still has today. For all the times I can imagine the people around him telling him to throw in the towel, we have a good awareness of what he looks like because he didn't give up his ambitions

Perhaps there is more to change than just "doing things”. Maybe consider time and place, a little bit of timing, and perhaps a little bit of luck. There is more to luck than the spinning of a roulette table however: luck or lucky events happen more often when you have more opportunities for luck to happen. The more you expose yourself to the chances of the world and the whims of the wind, the more often you might come across a lucky event. And when you think about it, luck is a simplified phenomenon of being at the right place at the right time. I guess to be more of a lucky person, you should try to be at many places at many times

Of course, do things differently in general with proper execution. Action and inaction do make up the bulk of what happens or doesn't happen, but it doesn't quite mean that there are easier fixes than finding something new before looking. When I am writing at the bar at night, it is difficult to chat with the bartenders who work there as it does get a good amount of traffic (I go to a pretty nice bar, go figure), but if I am there during the early afternoon there are only a handful of people there and it’s easier to strike up a conversation with them. It is the same bar with the same people, but a few hours worth of time makes a difference. Sometimes you don't really need to be all that different to get different results. After all, if you come across a recipe and end up having burnt food over tough overcooked meat, that's not really the recipe's fault. So give it another try so you can be better at it. With life I believe that everything is possible, but I don’t think that everything is necessarily possible now in the present moment. We should capitalize opportunities when we come across them as they don’t last forever, create more new opportunities and leave life open ended, while enjoying the process of doing so

All in all, there are a variety of problems we come across in life, so in the same light there are a variety of solutions that factor into whatever seems like the best course of action

There is another flaw in "doing things" in that people aren't mechanical machines that simply "do things". We are creatures with emotion and drive. While we have events that gives us a resolve to want to be able to do some athletic trick or want to create something new, while there are things we have or lose that gives us the resolve of having some attitude, what if there isn't that big of a push? What if we want to change but the feeling doesn't compel us so much? What if we have this big internal speech at the last minutes of the day before we go to sleep and tell ourselves "starting tomorrow I'm totally going to be a different person" just to be the same person to do the same thing over and over again, living the same life we were living, while always just wanting, wanting things to be different? What happens when all we have is self motivation, but the self motivation just doesn't cut it?

I would like to think that the solution to this is to be the own action to your reaction that doesn't try to force actions with a fleeting change in emotion. Maybe if you want to quit or taper drinking, you should get rid of all the empty bottles in your room. Maybe if you want to do well with a goal, you should write it down, maybe make a sticky note and put it on the wall so you always see it and know what you want while also instructing future you with the wishes of present you, so that when present you gets a little lost in seeing things through, past you tells you what you always wanted to do. I got an Apple watch which allows me to monitor my heart beat. No, the watch in and of itself cannot workout for me or give me workout advice or make working out easier, but it does make me more aware of my current health so that I take my health more seriously. Momma said that if a girl gets a haircut, it is because she has a change in personality. I dunno. Go get a haircut. If you want change in your life but change doesn't happen as quickly as you would like it to, give your own life a little bit of a stimulant. Not just an emotion that you deeply have as you mull in bed before you go to sleep, but a physical thing or token of your desired goals and intentions. People in general like nice cars: I'm sure if a car works it’s all the same unless your intention is drifting down the 5, but driving in a nice car makes the drive to work more enjoyable and thus, the overall experience more pleasant [1]. So if you want to buy a nicer car, go ahead if you can, but you can make the notions of such change with things such as watches, clothes, sticky-notes, or bling. At Alcohol Anonymous, they give chips for milestones. I guess kids get trophies too for sports and the like just for showing up. As much as people can and want to do things, if the passion and drive for doing things differently wanes, then we might be stuck with whatever out of context advice Einstein gave us. If it doesn't take a whole lot to piss someone off or get pissed yourself, then I don't think it takes a whole lot to put them in a good mood and I have hope that we have the ability to do this for others and for ourselves. I might be totally wrong though so don't quote me on that

There are a lot of people who are self motivated and might have the discipline to do things perfectly fine on their own, knowing what to do before being told to and might push themselves constantly. There are people who might be extremely curious and try out different hobbies and recipes or be passionate in the way they view their own lives. But while it is nice to ideally be self motivated, even the best of us can get burnt out imposing expectations on ourselves or just lose passion in something we have or like after time passes. So in the event that doing things becomes hard and you want to have a simple fix in attitude, perhaps mix up the time and location of the things you do and the things you see and maybe change will grow from there. No one likes a boss who micromanages and tells you what to do because ultimately it makes employees less passionate in the things they do as simple and non-controversial it might be. In the same way you may not want to boss yourself around all the time but take yourself by the hand and give yourself your own push. I tend to find that for myself and others, we are able to come up with amazing advice and not do it, and I believe it is because people sometimes have difficulty motivating themselves even if they are great at motivating others. If things don't look all that different or the same old usual life is all the same, maybe you won't feel all that differently and your self motivation won't be all that different either. Most people usually don’t go out of the way to do extravagant things for no good reason for the hell of it unless you’re a bit on the crazy insane side of things. And even if you aren't in a bad place in life, adding spice to your life can be exhilarating anyway

Maybe you weren't feeling at the top of your game at the moment and accidentally threw an interception. Maybe someone you dealt with was in a bad mood at the moment. There are times in which you might have done everything seemingly 100% right and still not get the results you want. There is more to life than following steps A to Z, and no one goes around giving advice with a money back guarantee. In the way pictures are photographs of "things", a good picture has proper angle and lighting, so consider that analogous to time and place

The world is a forever changing place and it’s big anyway. Something that didn't work might tomorrow, and something that did work may not in the future, to keep in mind

Sometimes and often when I try to write an article, I come at a roadblock in my train of thought or there's something on the tip of my tongue I would like to say. It doesn't help to continue sitting there. Maybe I'll jot a few things down or go on a writing spree, but if I'm stuck, there isn't much I can do about it for the most part. I'll go about doing something else until something comes to mind

——————————-

[1] Fun random fact: people in the northwest call Interstate 5 “I-5” and people in the midwest (I think I heard) would call it “highway 5” though in California, they call it “the 5”. I personally like “the 5” though in conversation, it varies on which interstate I’m talking about to who
