Tough Life
Life Improvement

Life can be hard but things can be rough if you make it tough

Personally I had some trouble with women and be all like “why can women be so difficult” though one thing I learned over the years is that while women can be difficult when things don’t go their way, they can be easy to please. This is a generality of course as I am not trying to speak for all women though as an opinion, women are as difficult as you make them to be… maybe sometimes. I’m sure this applies to people in general and regarding men from the perspective of women, though as a dude it’s not like… yeah [1]

Life can be like that. Something seems tough, but we make it seem hard. Psychologically speaking it’s called anxiety, though outside clinical conditions and the sort, people have this hurdle to cross with a lot of things. Hitting on people can seem tough and rejection isn’t fun, but between the reality you think is true and how true that might actually be and how great you’re at it and all, hitting on people is only as tough as you make it. Life goals such as diet and exercise are the same, it looks tough being a healthy person but only if you think it’s tough and make it hard. Being a nice person or being an assertive person can actually be tough and I will not argue with you that it is not simple being the person who found the mindset in having the characters you wish to have, but between here and there I hold that having firm character traits are as tough as you make it out to be

Life can go well; life can have a lot of wonderful journeys and events and pleasant surprises, but assuming you run into life’s difficulties that come every so often life can be hard. Beyond how tough it currently is in actuality, how much better it could or should be, and how acceptable it is to you to have a certain level of comfort or admit to not having it is my notion that things are as tough as you make them out to be

A lot of things are and should be hard. Being an incredibly successful person, being extremely popular, or even attempting to dabble into politics or the greater sphere of society is and should conceptually be tough and challenging. Sometimes when I try being political whether I like it or not and find trouble with it, outside the first reaction being “politics can be such bullshit” is the acceptance that politics is difficult to begin with. Though beyond matters of a certain ideology I’m learning that challenges of all sorts are as difficult as I make them out to be. It can be a little seemingly delusional on paper and a bit sugar-coaty in saying “just think it’s easy” since yeah it’s not, but I want to make the argument of putting perspective on difficulties. A lot of things in life have to do with perspective. The ideas we have of people and events are from what we see, hear, and know, which then gets processed into or alongside a perspective, which then influences our opinions. This is also true for difficulties, and beyond the technical implications of the difficulties that exist is the perspective on how difficult we think those things are to us. Yes, a lot of difficult things probably won’t get easier just because we want to trick ourselves into thinking it’s easy, but it can definitely get harder if we think and believe it to be harder than it actually looks

————————————————————-

[1] I have my own lady problems so take it with a grain of salt
