Twenty-Four
Life Improvement

There are twenty-four hours to a day and the best thing to do is to accomplish a day’s worth of goals in a single day

A lot of us have big goals and for the most part, a lot of these goals can't be accomplished in a single day. For example, you wish to be shredded. Though if you started today, you definitely won't be shredded in a single day. The best thing you can do is to accomplish a day's worth of exercise in a single day. Whether it being lifting weights your body can only lift so much and for running, you can only go so fast. If we take running as a bigger metaphor in the scheme of life, there isn't much you can do for the time being to increase your top speed, the only thing you can do is to run for longer stretches of time. To run longer distances in miles, you run for a longer length of time 

This comparison can easily be lost on an individual when it comes to more abstract goals. For example, you may want to have a perfect lifestyle as of tomorrow and have that wish but still be upset at how things are for the time being, then eventually give up on your new year's resolution. There probably is a valid reason to why you might feel the way you feel, though it is not merely the best but the only thing one can possibly actually do is to accomplish a day's worth of tasks in a single day. Some people talk about a work-life balance, though this may come across as allocating time increments in categories and picking how that is done. While there are a lot of nuances to this, a more workable mentality uses a single-day milemarker in finding the satisfaction for deserving to feel accomplished. The work-life balance in the number of hours in this and that being measured to precision isn't the ultimate measure of satisfaction, it is whether one made the most one could out of a day

Between Alcohol Anonymous to reasonable non-addictive mentalities, people say to not control the things you can't control. And this article is stating that it will always be impossible to do more than a day's worth of work in a single day. If you have the desire to read a book that is a thousand pages long and can only read 200 pages a day, then a "reasonable mentality" would hold that you are doing your best and should be proud of yourself for reading 200 pages a day for five days. And as much as it is admirable to be accomplished for as much as possible for as quick as possible, as cool as it sounds like to be the person to be able to read an entire book in detail in a single day, that is an unreasonable expectation - and furthermore too tall an order to be disappointed in yourself if you didn't do that even if you wanted to. Reading a book takes around a week (for the sake of argument) but not a single day. So if one decided to "not do things they can't do", then one wouldn't expect themselves to do more within a day that takes more than a day's worth of work nor base their own worth for not having done that

To be serious without sounding like I just discovered time, a week has seven days and a month has around 4 weeks, with a year having 12 months. So if you want the most out of a year, you make the most out of each month, and if you want the most out of each month you make the most out of each week, and if you want the most out of each week, you make the most out of each day. And when you make the most out of each day, added up you will find the most out of each year. And between our own natural tendency in pleasuring ourselves, will find an excuse to wedge in the "work-life balance"

A goal that is big enough to be significant definitely will take more than a day, though we may think of our current situation and the slowness of incremental change and still be unsatisfied in that. Though if you wish to think of the efficacy of yourself dependent on if a day's worth was satisfied, that is a better way to live in comparison to any perspective outside of that
