Vice City
Amateur Philosophy

Coping mechanisms carry a stigma similar to a band aid: you use a medical bandage to help heal an open wound. Ointments are applied on an inflicted area and wraps are used to cover it up so after a period of time it would heal and be normal again. Coping mechanisms have a dual stigma that acknowledges the notion that they are necessary and beneficial like a bandage, but also has a negative bias is that you only would use them if you aren’t in full health

Vices are like coping mechanisms but the stigma with them is less noble: it is like a coping mechanism though it isn't seen with the intention of healing an ailment but to balance out negative feelings. The stigma of the different terms have some validity if I have to be frank but to look into the grand scheme of life I would not say that this view is the most reliable reflection. We consider some actions to be "healthy habits" and it does injustice to things that aren’t as so since they can have their merits: that they open a door to a different part of life. Coping mechanisms are seen as semi-noble and vices are considered unnecessary as a whole. This is not a nuanced way to view them as they are doors of opportunity to different parts of the world

I had a roommate tell me in treating people with consideration and empathy that "No one was asked to be born." I find that deep as it is helped me view people as making the best of their lives. We have a traditional view of life that goes along the lines of "work hard do well, have a good job, friends, and family" and everything that helps us do that are "healthy habits," but through the course of life we use coping mechanisms and vices. We think of it as a given that having a "good life" is everyone's end goal and it probably to definitely is, though just because we all desire to have a "good life" we shouldn’t thus consider the things that do not explicitly point us to that direction to be extraneous distractors

To start, I hold that good exercise is highly rewarding. I love doing it and it does me well as I like being fit and seen as such. So we can call that a good habit as if God hypothetically came up to me and offered me a nicer body I would take him up on the offer 100% of the time. Perhaps this is a reason why I like doing it: there is everything to gain, nothing to lose, and as a generality no negative repercussions. I have this view regarding working out but the rewarding nature tied with it is not the same with a lot of other things in life

Outside working out, we consider going to school and getting a nice career some things in helping us achieve the traditional standard lifestyle but what isn't concerned with that is up in the air if not categorized to be baggage. It is interesting that we consider drinking in a lot of angles: when we are young and underage we consider drinking to be a legal right we don't have yet and when we start drinking we consider it a privilege, a hobby, an exclusive recreation. We like to party and go to bars and have a blast as we enjoy getting to do so. We all are gravitated to sex and its pleasures and make relations to have it and use it to form more relationships. We like making money and having it. So we have dreams when we are young of how we wish to live when we get older, which might be along the lines of the kinds of career and all. This dream is to achieve a goal: do be able to do things. We want money so we can use that resource to buy nice things and do nice things and vacation to nice places. That is, some goals in life, “whether we got there or not”. Being "there or not" isn't the end goal as there are people who felt life wasn't worth living after losing a Michelin star while operating a restaurant as a chef along with Wall Street investors who also committed suicide at the start of the recession caused by a stock market crash. Having a life that is comprised of solely one thing isn’t healthy as that is a form of dependence concerning one’s identity. Rather, one should find pleasure in a variety of things - including vices if I am allowed to dare say so

Try taking on an anti-romantic view of the world. Pretend that the world is hell. It’s a prison of a sort. People say "people are difficult" and "life is difficult" so let us attempt to hold that view of life on face value. The world is a terrible place and life itself is evil. If we are to assume that life is a bad thing and we were cursed to live on earth then it can put into perspective how great the things we get to do are. Instead of thinking of life as a glorious thing that turned sour as we had this goal of being the President but fucked up since we didn't get there, how about treating life as a hell in which everything that we did enjoy was a fallible pleasant escape from it

We treat video games as a vice as it’s fun to do but give it a stigma that it's unproductive and hedonistic and goes nowhere to better our lives. Yes, I enjoyed playing them as a kid and still do, though I do find it perhaps non-ideal if I play it too often or if some of my friends are on it endlessly, even if I confess that I played a lot of it with my friends. And yes, people might tease us because they think video games are lame and sometimes I do want to tell them to fuck off since it’s a lot of fun, and then see my sister play and have the urge to tell her to do something else more productive then go on Call of Duty myself for an entire day. Just to say all this so I can be ridiculed or criticized by someone who never plays video games that I am such a hypocrite to have this train of thought: that I would play it, understand its uselessness and pleasures, and not just chuck it all out the window

Vice City is a video game of the Grand Theft Auto series, an amazing franchise altogether. There are commercials ran by AllState in which a slick dude trashes a car and says "I am mayhem" as a push for car insurance. To throw in my two cents he does it pretty cool in a fictional sense. Everything that isn't a "healthy habit" is purely evil. Well, sure. Taking a golf club and going to a car in the driveway and hitting the lights out of it is literally evil, but we still go "what a douchebag to then drive the car off the driveway," but when he says "I am mayhem" to the camera, we kinda think "damn if I could be like that guy." Or that’s just me. Grand Theft Auto is a fun game in which you are a gangster of a sort who steals cars and goes thugging around town dealing drugs and collecting guns and hit the strip club as an option. As a video game guys like us relish in it, and I’m sure girls do too. It grosses in the billions (nine of them, as a matter of fact) so it’s a pretty big hit. It addresses the reality of human nature as we aren't all looking at being Mr. President, PhD to feel like having a kick ass life. I'm sure that the guy who says "I am mayhem" isn't a politician, but he's got groove. And that is how life is: you got edge even in being the opposite of the traditional standard life. We talk about icons in the music industry or at Hollywood so in the real world there are many ways to gain edge that isn't in a suit. Although gangsters in Asia (Korea and Japan) do wear suits, but that's a different story. Cruising around dealing business in alternative ways is the shit. Video games can be pretty cool, Grand Theft Auto and otherwise

To continue the topic of discussion at hand, there isn't anything inherently wrong for being non-traditional in a professional sense that was coupled with standard life success and a happy life. Life is hell. Everything that we do for pleasure is a gift we give ourselves to make the best out of a hellish life. Yes, while it is amazing to be a multimillionaire body building governor, not everything that isn't towards that is antithesis of a wholesome life. We consider some things to be "healthy habits" as they contribute to the ideal lifestyle and throw in coping mechanisms such as life bettering and vices that are an escape from coping with life. And this view is not impartial towards things that weren't held universally to be proper

A vice is a world of its own. Life on earth isn't just a life on the single planet earth, but a collection of worlds. Drinking is an act but it is a world of its own sort. Remember, we want a successful life so with those successes we can do things. We want to do things with our money, have friends and do things with them, have sex, and go on vacation. This is the big jist, but the bottom line is we want a life in which we are doing things. There is a question asked not often enough of what we wish to do with our success and ultimately we would say we wish use more vices with it. We consider vices to be bad things and at times they can devolve to be detrimental to a good life, but all the things we do have a world of their own

We want to have money so we can invest, sure. Donate to charity and all. Pretty solid. But we use money to do things with it, and by doing things we want to enter a world. We can start with vacationing as that can be clearly seen as going into a different world. It's a lot of fun to go on vacation and see new places and be part of a world that is somewhat distant from our bedroom. It's a life pleasure in which we journey to be at new places to do new things to have a story to share later on. We want to go to a college, as college provides the world of college. For those of us who went or are going, it is a world of its own. Hawaii is a world of its own, and so on and so forth. This applies no less with everything else in life. Work is its own world, also known as the workplace, and people like being part of a cool work environment. We tend to enjoy a steady day of work over chaos as the life we have at work is part of our life, though most of us don’t want too steady of a work life as we dabble in drama even within the workplace. So even with the professional environment﻿, because it is a part of our life we might look for drama when we can as we do with life in general

To swing back on drinking: through drinking you also enter the world of drinking. Drinking with friends, drinking as a way of life, drinking to end the day or spend the day, drinking to have fun. Instead of treating drinking as an action in which you interact with a bottle, to take away the stigmas attached to it justifiably and all, it is a world. An ideological world isn’t a good or bad thing; it is an abstract place in which opinions are angles of that world. Think less of success comprised of “doing things” as the end goal but more of how we as people want to enter worlds and are a part of them. There are a handful of them: the world of money and business, the world of smoking, the world of fitness, the world of culinary arts, the world of Hollywood and photography, the world of sports, the world of church and religion, the world of politics and diplomacy. People have book clubs and pick-up games involving sports. There is also the world of mobsters and gangsters, the world of Sin City that is Las Vegas with the world of partying and clubbing. We are all parts of worlds and strive to immerse ourselves in them. Whether through playing with others and meeting people who also play, there is also the world of video games. People have routines and things they do for professional or recreational reasons then add along coping mechanisms and vices. But if we are to assume life is hell and everything is an escape from hell, then it would hold that all of the aforementioned is a vice

Vice City is a video game but it isn't the only vice that has its own world as in Grand Theft Auto. Every vice is its own world in which people are dropping by and entering into with others
