Winging It
Amateur Philosophy

Time to revisit the concept of being smart

The key to success is made up of a few things, which include resources, experience, and intuition. We have the idea that "being smart" is the way to success, but the view that book-knowledge as the sole factor being not correct is already known. We can ditch this concept and start from scratch: resources are the things you have that allow you to make strides in your life. Resources are key in things such as seduction: people have the assumption that a hypothetical suitor making better moves on someone being the key to seduction, but the vague overlooked prerequisite is attire. There is a lot of work that needs to be done in one's personal life before they even walk out the door. The process of seduction does not start when you make eye contact with someone; the process of seduction starts the moment you wake up and the days before in how you are carrying your life and continues when you do in fact meet someone you wish to seduce

Another factor that enables people in performing better is experience. In the view of "being smart", this is where it might apply. In a sense, if you are studying for a test, you are expanding your experience in the field via studying before you take the test. Experience is also outside of books, of course. There are life experiences that further knowledge of the world, experience in the field, and experience in situations that come often. The key to success, summed up as "performing well", is seen by others by the things you do during performance, but around 90% of the work is the preparation in performing, and only 10% of the action is in the performance itself. People who perform better are good at what they do, not because they are suddenly impressive when they are on the spot but because performing well comes naturally as there was a lot of preparation done beforehand. Preparation being intentional, such as writing a speech or making a slideshow, or coincidental, such as with life experiences including failure, make up the necessary parts of high caliber performance even if one doesn't see it or recognize it

When it comes to stress in a professional setting, it is obvious that stress comes from not having been prepared. It is rather predicable and foreseeable when you have an event at a certain time to make a performance and know how to deal with it. Though when it comes to personal stress, such as anxiety and depression or paranoia of a sort, the reasoning is still the same: all those stresses came out of not knowing what to do. People who are otherwise great at professional work can obviously have personal stress, and it’s because they are prepared intellectually for the professional matters at hand and have the devices in accomplishing tasks, though with personal stress it's still the same in which one was not prepared, doesn't know what to do, or don't have the devices in "managing" the problem at hand. The exact ways this are done is different on an individual case by case basis, though the result in all cases is based off of experience and preparation

When people have shortcomings in a professional field, they start to understand that they should be more prepared the next time around. Personal stress is different since people have the reflex of working on the stress, be it thinking about it more, reasoning with it more, or otherwise performing on it better. However, these aren’t the most effective ways to work on stress. As with professional stress, the problem is better resolved with preparation and experience, not solely on performance in and of itself

The exception to all this is intuition. Intuition is the ability to wing it, the creativity in grasping situations quickly and operating on them immediately and not being slowed down even when caught off-guard. It blends a bit of humor and sass with a touch of charm. Since nearly every situation will be a new one, you do need a bit of intuition since doing the exact same thing in two different situations won't work. Intuition can border on a kind of personality as it resembles a proactive nature while one could say that intuition branches from experience. Intuition drives the speed in which one gains experience, and itself can be used to drive success

The speed in which one does gain experience quickly is also known as open-mindedness and curiosity. Intuition, when applied in certain situations looks like magic, but I did say earlier that intuition shares similarities with personalities, the exact concrete ones as stated. And to extend this by describing the opposite and bring it back full circle: the opposite of open-mindedness and curiosity is stubbornness, which hinders intuition and also success by itself. And to add one for good measure, being stubborn wouldn't help as a personality trait if you liked to see someone who did like to wing it
