Working Out
Life Improvement

  

Half of fitness is exercise and working out. The other half is diet

Overloading: 

Overloading is the concept where the last repetition (rep) is hard to do so that you cannot do the next rep. If you are able to do one more rep, then you are not overloading the muscle fibers. Muscle fibers need to be torn for more muscle fibers to be made, so by not overloading, you don’t make as much gains than you would if you did

 

Running:

When you run, you want to push off the toes of your feet. Even while you are jogging, it is the same as running. The tips of your toes is like a catapult that pushes the body forward, as opposed to sliding the feet one at a time. Push off the toes. It is wise to invest in a good pair of running shoes if you wish, but it’s also worthwhile having a pair of rubber insoles and replace the ones that come with your shoes. Shoes usually come with flimsy 5mm thick soles, but the rubber ones are around $20 and do your feet a whole lot better. You will be less sore and run more often as well as longer

Reps and Sets:

Depending on your goals, the number varies.

If you take a weight that is 20 pounds per say, and that you can do that for 10 reps, maybe you could do 8 reps if you used a 22.5 pound. With more reps, you can grow larger muscles, but with fewer reps and heavier weights, you can grow stronger muscles. Generally. Endurance training with higher reps can help work that is done over long periods of time, and strength training can help with the maximum force your body can exert. Bigger muscles does not mean it is necessarily stronger, and in general there are three different muscle fiber types: Type I, Type II, and Cardiac

For beginners, common numbers are:

3x10

3x8

3x12

5x5

10x10

5/3/1

I personally like the 5x5 and 3x10 but whatever suits you. I have different reps/sets for each workout. For benching, I would do 3x10 and for deadlifting I would do 5x5 or 5/3/1, depending on my goals or mood

It is also important to change your routine once in a while: your muscles grow to adapt to the workout you are doing. If you start working out, then your body grow muscles to adapt to the change. After a while of doing 3x10 for example, your body “kinda gets used to it”. Then you may want to switch to a 5x5 and your body thinks “oh, I need to grow since I am not used to this new external change and need to adapt”. Plateauing is the concept when you make some progress then make little or no change after that. The terminology of continuing to make gains in this situation is “breaking out of a plateau”, which is done by changing your workout routing and consuming more food

 

Full Range of Motion:

Take the lowest weight and go crazy with it. If you are doing bicep curls for example, you will go all the way down and all the way up. This is full range of motion. You should also use full range of motion with heavy weights, especially in the weights that are necessarily hard to do as a normal part of working out.

When you are doing bicep curls, you still need to go all the down and all the way up. Some guys like to show off how much they lift and go too heavy and they don’t go all the way down and all the way up, and yes, you can lift heavier if you do not use your full range of motion, but this is not ideal because you don’t fully use the muscle parts evenly and it will grow unevenly. There are some guys who are built but they don’t seem to have balanced looking muscles, and this is one reason why (also muscle balance, which I will talk about in a bit)

Rotating the Weights:

The bicep curl is when you have a weight that has the bar flat, or parallel to the ground throughout motion. The weights are on both sides of your hand

The hammer curl is when you have the same weight, but rotate your wrist 90 degrees so that you have a bar that is pointing to the ground in the lifted position. You have weights on the top of the hand and the bottom of the hand

While it seems like it is the same motion for the same muscle group (biceps), the bicep is two muscle groups located around the same area, but the two lifts works them out differently (triceps have three muscle groups and quadriceps have four)

Breathing and Rhythm:

Inhale when you relax or release weight, and exhale as you flex and take on weight

There is a benefit when you stop for a moment half way through the rep. Instead of pumping weights like a pendulum, if you stop halfway it is harder to do because you don’t use momentum to lift weights, you use your strength to lift weights

 

Positive, Negative, Static Holds:

There are three types of lifts:

Positive: you take a weight, and you lift it. This is a positive lift

Negative: you take a weight in the lifted position, and instead of using gravity to help it go back down, you slowly lower the weight and go against gravity to lower it slowly, and using your muscles to maintain lowering it without the help of gravity. This is apparently a thing for those who do bicep curls with 100lb weights, or an add on after doing your traditional positive sets

Static Holds: This is when you put your muscles in a position in which it works to hold a position. A plank is one example. Sticking your arms out is another

For active lifts, you rip the most when you do “slow down, quick up”, where you are quick when lifting the weight but slow when lowering it

 

Form and Injury:

You should know the proper form for all lifts. It is not good at all to use bad form, as you may risk hurting yourself. You should not lift too heavy if there is stress on your bones that seems inappropriate

 

Workout Routine:

Muscle groups generally take 48 hours to heal. You should not try to workout the same muscle group back to back, but there is a workout routine that does do this (?) that I am not aware of

The only exceptions to this are the abs and heart. Those you can workout everyday back to back. And you know, if the heart got a break then… yeah

PPL (Push Pull Legs) is a great starter as far as routines go, but it is your own fun to make your own routine. There are examples that have a two, three, four or five day splits, but how often you workout and how much time you can dedicate factors into this, as well as which body parts you are trying to focus on

Barbell vs Dumbbell

For some lifts, such as the bicep curl or the bench press, you could use a barbell and put weights on each side, and lift a long bar in one piece as a workout. You could also take two dumbbells and lift two pieces as a workout. In general (or maybe all the time), you lift less weight with dumbbells with the weights combined than you would with a barbell. Reason being is that with barbells you use less energy holding the weights in place and devote more energy lifting the weights. While this seems like “Well if I lift more with a barbell than dumbbells, then what’s the appeal in dumbbells for that lift?”

With the bench press, for example, when you lift all the way up, your arms are making a triangle shape, as the fact that you are holding the bar limits how much those arms can move upwards. If you use dumbbells, you can push your arms all the way up, which you can’t do with a barbell. Also to reiterate full range of motion, you should be going all the way down with a barbell, but you can go a bit lower with dumbbells (and with dumbbells, if you can’t make it up and don’t have a spotter, you can just drop the weights, although you shouldn’t be trying to)

Stretching and Warm Ups:

You should stretch a bit with each workout. If you don’t stretch before physical activity, you might risk injuring yourself, especially with heavy lifting. By consensus, if you stretch completely before a workout, you might be only to be able to exert around 90% of your max energy, so stretch a little bit or warm up with lighter weights

Post-workout stretches are ideal if you devote the time to it. In general, you should hold stretches for around 60 seconds for there to be substantial gains in flexibility. Stretches that last 10 seconds are not that effective in improving flexibility. Stretching is easier with a higher body temperature, so post workout stretches make stretches easier, as well as stretching inside or after the sauna

Muscle Balance:

You should be working out the muscle groups evenly. If you look in the mirror at the side, look at your shoulder. It should ideally be in line with your spine to the mirror. If it is leaning forward, that means your chest is pulling the shoulder forward, so your relaxed state has shoulders forward with a tighter chest form. You should also be working out your upper back so that when you are resting, the upper back will be pulling the shoulders back too, so that your chest isn’t just forcing it forward

Weight Loss:

Running is a form of Cardio… and sure. What running does is maintain a higher heart rate to work that out. It does not completely exhaust the other muscle groups with heavy lifting, so running is primarily a cardio exercise. There are other forms of weight loss that isn’t just cardio, however. Calories are a measurement of energy. Scientifically, a calorie is the amount of energy to raise a mL of water by 1 Celsius, which is 4.18 Joules. Joules is an expression of Energy, which is a product of Force times Distance. When lifting weights, the amount of distance the weights travel is set, but heavier lifts exert more force, therefore, require more energy to lift. This might have been a complicated way of saying that lifting weights also help burn energy if that was something that wasn’t the first thought with weight loss. While running is an important method for cardio, it is not the only solution for weight loss. Bodybuilders also have periods of Bulking (working out in a caloric surplus) and Cutting (working out in a caloric deficit)

It is generally not possible to be bulking and cutting. While you are bulking, your body needs more nutrition than the bare requirements so that your body has sufficient means of creating more muscle cells. While cutting, you are working out so that you have less nutrients than needed, so you expended stored energy to lose weight. Focus on one at a time, but not both. You also need some carbohydrates in building muscle cells. While muscle is primarily made up of protein, carbohydrates are used to hold muscle fibers together

Metabolism is the amount of energy you body naturally burns without more exercise. Your heart for example, is always beating, so your heart is burning energy naturally in a rested state. Your other organs and muscles do this too, as they need energy even while you are not working them out. What people who do regularly work out have also is a higher metabolism because there are more muscle cells to maintain, so people with larger muscles naturally burn more energy even in a rested state. So if you think that running it off seems like all that you can do, that is not true. You can burn energy with weight lifting, and even more convenient, burn more energy while resting with larger muscles at a higher metabolic rate 

List of Muscle Groups:

You could (I could) look up all the scientific names for each muscle group that is in the body, and that may be beneficial. What is important is knowing which muscle groups are used for each work out. It seems obvious for a lot of lifts, but when you think about it on a case to case basis, you will also think about the other kinds of muscle groups you aren’t working out

Bicep / Tricep: There is a variation of the bicep curl that is called the Concentration Curl. You sit down with your legs spread, take a dumbbell in one hand, and press the tricep of that arm inside your thigh, then do the curls. The benefit here is that the elbow is not moving, all of the force that lifts the weight up comes from the bicep. This is a beneficial way to isolate and target the muscle group as the elbow is fixed in place. When it isn’t (as a doing curl standing), there could be a little shift in the elbow backwards that helps lift the weight upwards and “all the way up” without really forcing the bicep to do all the work. Although doing ‘normal’ bicep curls can be effective for the overall fitness of the arm, but only so if the elbow is not moving and fixed in place. I personally do all my bicep curls as concentration curls. This can be an opinionated discussion in which you like better, but objectively speaking, doing a lift without proper form is not ideal

Forearms: This is a muscle group that gets stronger by using your hands, so it might be one of the few muscle groups that doesn’t have a particular “lift” to it, although there are a couple ways to make them stronger

Shoulders: There are three heads to each shoulder: front, side, and back. Shoulder Flys are the way to go, but be sure to do them both sideways and forwards. The bending over pumping a dumbbell lift works out the rear shoulder head well

Top part of the Shoulder around the Collar: Barbell Shrugs

Lats and Back: Lat Pull Down, Pull Ups, Chin Ups. There is a difference between having the palms facing towards you and away from you, as the pull up will focus on the triceps more and the chin up will focus on the bicep more. Although I personally often forget which one is called which, and I don’t think people care too much if you mix the two up. The back is one of the most important muscle groups, as this helps with posture, and more importantly, handling the weight of the whole entire upper body as well as the additional weight you put on your body

Chest: Pushups and Benching. The benefit to benching is that you isolate the chest area. With both exercises there are a variety of grips. The standard pushup has the hands under the shoulder heads, but there are variations with the hands spread wider and the hands closed together to make a diamond. Play with the different variations as the range of motion is different on the chest area for each one. You do need to play around with wider spread grips as this will give the chest a more whole spread out look as opposed to a tight boxy look that only looks flexed if the arms aren’t spread out. If you get the idea

With benching, be sure to do the incline and decline time to time as well, if not as often as doing them parallel. With an incline, you work out the upper chest, and with the decline you work the lower chest (My lower pecs are bigger than my upper pecs I think and I personally don’t do the decline. I wrote it here for properness and if you skipped declines as a beginner then it may be okay but don’t quote me on that)

Abdominals: Be sure to work out the obliques, or the side abs too. You should also time to time work on your lower abs with leg raises. You can do this while laying down, or you can do this while being suspended in midair with the chair thing whatever its called

My ab routine is the decline leg holder, and while holding a plate, go down while twisting right, go back up, go down twisting left, go back up, and repeating. The “simple” routine is to put your legs on it and go up and down, but if you twist while doing that it works out the obliques

Squatting and Deadlifting: Ideally, you should wear flat shoes, not curved shoes. Basketball shoes and VANs are flat, and are ideal when you squat or deadlift. If you have a flat bottom, you aren’t wasting energy or risking injury because your feet are planted solid and safely on the ground. If you are using running shoes that are curved at the front and back, you do risk wasting energy and/or injury. Proper form is the most important with these lifts because not doing so risks the most injury of all lifts. There are variations to the squat, as some like to put the barbell in front of the body while most put it behind the back. Putting it behind the back seems to be the way to do it, while if there was a benefit to putting it in front of the body, I wouldn’t know personally. This also requires having a strong upper back to handle the weight of the barbell, as there is risk in putting weight on the back to work out the legs if the back cannot handle the weight. This makes the barbell squat different than the leg press with a machine, or squatting while holding dumbbells on the side. For this reason, the Squat and the Deadlift are called Compound Lifts as they work out and utilize multiple parts of the body. There is a benefit to doing compound lifts as they holistically work out multiple parts of the body, but this becomes dangerous if there are parts that are being utilized that are not as developed to work out the other parts of the body.

The barbell, while squatting or deadlifting, should start above the feet, and end above the feet. It goes in a straight line from top to finish. At no point should you be leaning forward or backwards so the line of travel is anything but a straight line. While squatting, practice looking up. When you are looking up, you pull the upper back straight, and it is easier to maintain the line that goes straight up and down. When you are looking down, you are prone to be pushing the weight a little more to the direction of where you are looking, which is forward, something you should not be doing (if applicable)

With legs, the other muscle groups not mentioned are the hamstrings, which is the underpart of your thighs, and the leg adductors and abductors, which pull your legs out to the side and back. If you wish to work out these parts of the body too, you can, although in my opinion, there isn’t much practical application in having strong hamstrings or super-strong adductors or abductors, unless you’re a bodybuilding fitness model. The quads on the top of your thighs do fine with running, kicking, and sports in general, but having strong adductors, abductors, and hamstrings is trivial outside just plain looks

With squats, generally it is consider proper form to lower your ass to the point that your quads are parallel to the ground. Not going low enough in which this doesn’t happen is considered bad form. If you go even lower, you won’t be able to lift as much but you workout your glutes more, if you were going for a big ass

While squatting it is considered proper form to have your feet shoulder with apart. This is a general guideline. Since everyone’s body is different, there is another method in which you jump in the air as high as possible and naturally fall back on the ground. After doing this, now see how far apart your feet are. This is also considered how far apart your feet should be

When you are deadlifting, you should also have your feet apart the same distance as if you were squatting. There is however a variation called sumo deadlifts in which your feet are spread apart further. I never done sumos before but apparently there is a benefit to it 

Hips: I never done this before but I see people sit on the floor with a barbell over their hips and hump it into the air. By people I mean girls. This isn’t the most … required thing to do though it’s sexy to see

Calves and shins are the last part of the legs. There is no real way to workout the shin, or the anterior tibialis, outside of running, and if you wanted to workout the calves, you could hold some weights and do some heel raises. It isn’t the most important you do these all the time with as much dedication with all the other muscle groups, but be sure to squeeze that in your workout time to time
