You cannot Succeed without Failure
Life Improvement

So why do we work out? Yes, we know that somehow running or lifting weights helps our fitness, but there is some science behind all that. It's not a magical "I lift weights so my body is stronger" idea, but a universal mechanism that is behind the creation of a better body

When we work out we tear muscle fibers in the process. So if you are weightlifting, your second set will be harder than the first, and the third set will be harder than the second. As we lift weights, we cause muscle cells to die in the process. The concept of soreness is not just a mental thought or idea, but the reality that you are in fact weaker than you were moments ago since tissues were torn while you work out

During periods of rest after consuming food and digesting nutrients, our body adapts to this change by creating more muscle cells than were destroyed. This is how we acquire a nicer body. By constantly eliminating muscle cells and creating more new ones than numbered previously, we craft a nice body by the incremental gains that we make. Only by working out do we teach our body that there is a need to adapt and be better than we were before

So the harder we try on our last set, the more reps we try to fit in before we give it a rest, the heavier we lift or the longer we run, the more fibers we rip and greater is the need for our bodies to develop more muscle cells. As savage as it sounds, only by damaging our bodies on a cellular level do we nurture the growth to be sexy

For meatheads like me, we are told a long time ago: No pain no gain 

This is also true on an emotional level. In the way our bodies need to endure physical pain so that it becomes stronger, we need to also endure emotional pain for us to create character. Emotional endurance is only something that is developed by having it put to the test time and time again 

There are a lot of other people who aren't me who want to teach you to create confidence and courage. We all want those kinds of things, but telling others and ourselves to develop such traits does not just make them magically appear

No one who never knew fear knows courage. Courage is not a feeling that is developed within your comfort zone. You don't develop a backbone by living a comfortable life

To a degree, courage is a feeling of confidence that is grown after having known failure. Pain creates character. Practice makes perfect, but there is no way to develop an ideal personality that has not seen fear. Somewhere along the line this fear I talk about is the fear of failure or loss

There are guys like me who are willing to be in a fight. But we are only willing to be in a fight because we are willing to be physically hurt. There is no person who is not willing to get hurt that is willing to be in a physical fight. But some of us who have been physically hurt know what that feeling is and aren't scared of experiencing it again all that much. That is how confidence is developed

When it comes down to fighting, if you are the biggest guy in the room but are terrified of ruining your pretty face, you probably won’t ever be willing to be in a fight, no matter how much you may be good at it

To tie together our physical and emotional strengths, there is some overlap. Courage at the end of the day is the product of two things:

    Our knowledge of the likelihood that we succeed, and

    Our willingness to lose and fail

We then increase our confidence by either increasing the likelihood that we come out victorious or by being more willing to accept defeat

You the reader, no matter who you are, are probably finding all sorts of ways to increase your chance of success. That is what a lot of blogs, books, and mentors devote their time to: how to be more successful, how to create more happiness, and how to produce more of what you already output (or don’t). But this is only one part of the half. Increasing your chances of success is partly done by working out more, studying more, putting in more hours, and so on and so forth

However, confidence is also developed by being willing to fail. This feeling is created by having failed in the past. The less failure you have in life, the more likely you are scared of failing. Embracing failure is a mindset that is developed by having been through failure or been up front to it. By experiencing failure do we grow an immunity to it. With actual immune systems, we inject vaccines (dead viruses) or run into live ones so that we create antibodies to combat it then, and again in the future. Emotionally, we go through hardships to be able to combat the same feeling when we experience them again another day

There is a natural problem in creating character as I say it does, and that is that we avoid bad circumstances. For logical and emotional reasons, why would we want to be in terror? If humans, like all animals, behave on survival, then what kind of survival instinct would tell us to be in situations in which we are unhappy or even scared?

So we are stuck. We want to develop courage but at the same time avoid situations in which courage is actually made. It is some sort of a paradox: we want one thing but lean to the path that takes us away from growing it

Such is our frustration. We read and read and read, knowing what we want but fear of the path to get there. You cannot be a truly confident person by isolating yourself only in situations in which you know that you will succeed. This, in and of itself, is a sort of cowardice. Life will not guarantee that you will enjoy every single situation that you may encounter

 

Confidence is a feeling that we develop partly by increasing our willingness to accept failure, which is built on the knowledge of having experienced it in the past and having less fear as a whole because of it

————————————————————-

Building confidence can happen, but also understand that it's not a given. Sometimes, repeated cases of failure can numb you so it’s not so bad the next time, but repeated cases can also make a person depressed, or drive a person crazy. For me… well… with my family I eventually get the same nagging time to time so I eventually think “well that's the way they are” but when I’m not feeling it I think “holy shit oh my god here we go again”. After the years my “oh my god” moments at worst became a “ugh sheesh god damn”, but outside that I did go through the experience of “fuck goddamn” when experiencing repeated drama. Failure, and repeated failure, happens in life. So out of genuine reflection, try and take failure as a way to build character because if you don’t let it, it may drive you insane
